Q2 2023 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Debra McConnell, Senior Vice President, Global Communications
Ernie Herrman, Chief Executive Officer and President
Scott Goldenberg, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Brooke Roach, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Jay Sole, Analyst, UBS
John Kernan, Analyst, Cowen
Kimberly Greenberger., Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Lorraine Hutchinson, Analyst, Bank of America
Matthew Boss, Analyst, J.P. Morgan.
Omar Saad, Analyst, Evercore
Paul Lejuez, Analyst, Citi
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to The TJX Companie's Second Quarter Fiscal 2023 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded on August 17, 2022.

I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Ernie Herman, Chief Executive Officer and President of The TJX Companies, Inc. Please go ahead sir.

Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Thanks, Sheila. Before we begin, Deb has some opening comments.

Debra McConnell{BIO 19182148 <GO>}
Thank you, Ernie and good morning. The forward-looking statements we make today about the company's results and plans are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results and the implementation of the company's plans to vary materially. These risks are discussed in the company's SEC filings, including, without limitation, the Form 10-K filed March 30, 2022. Further, these comments and the Q&A that follows are copyrighted today by The TJX Companies Inc. Any recording, retransmission, reproduction or other use of the same for profit or otherwise without prior consent of TJX is prohibited and a violation of United States copyright and other laws.

Additionally, while we have approved the publishing of a transcript of this call by a third party, we take no responsibility for inaccuracies that may appear in that transcript. We have detailed the impact of foreign exchange on our consolidated results and our international divisions in today's press release and the Investors section of our website, tjx.com. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures we discuss today to GAAP measures are posted on our website, tjx.com, in the Investors section.

Thank you. And now, I'll turn it back over to Ernie.

Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Good morning. Joining me and Deb, on the call is Scott Goldenberg. I'll start today by once again thanking each of our global associates for their hard work. I truly appreciate their commitment to bringing our customers excellent value every day.

Now to our results. I am very pleased with our second quarter pretax profit margin, which was above our plan and our earnings per share, which were at the high end of our plan. This is despite US comp sales coming in lighter than we expected as we believe historically high inflation impacted consumer discretionary spending. We achieved a strong profitability through better than expected merchandise margin and disciplined expense management.

I can't emphasize enough how this quarter is a testament to how great our business model is. Our teams executed our op price fundamentals extremely well and our merchants did an excellent job buying the right merchandise in the right categories. Across the company, our talented associates all played a part in delivering great value to our customers every day and helped our company drive strong profitability in the quarter.

As we enter the second half of the year, we see the flexibility of our business and our value proposition as key advantages in the current retail landscape. While we not immune to macro factors, over our 46-year history, the flexibility of our off-price model and our commitment to value have served us very well in different kinds of macro environments.

We attract a wide range of customers, which we believe is a key advantage in today's environment. Long term, we remain very confident in our plans to capture market share and improve the profitability profile of TJX. I'll talk more about our opportunities for the remainder of 2022 and beyond in a moment.

But before I continue, I'll turn the call over to Scott to cover our second quarter financial results in more detail.

Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Thanks. Ernie and good morning everyone. I'd like to echo Ernie's comments and thank all of our global associates for their continued dedication to TJX. I'll start with some additional details on the second quarter.

Second quarter consolidated pre-tax margin of 9.2% was above our plan. We are very pleased with our strong flow through despite our softer sales. Our pretax margin outperformance was primarily driven by merchandise margin and effective expense management, which were both better than we planned. Pretax margin was down 150 basis points versus last year's adjusted 10.7%.

Merchandise margin had a significant benefit from a combination of strong mark on and our pricing initiative, but was down due to 240 basis points of incremental freight pressure. Incremental wage costs were 80 basis points. Second quarter US comp store sales decreased 5% over an outsized 21% open only comp increase last year versus fiscal 2020, which when summed together, would be a 16% comp increase on a three-year stack basis.

Moving on, we are very pleased that our comp sales in our overall apparel business at Marmaxx were slightly positive every month of the quarter. US home. comp sales were down low teens versus a 37% US home open only comp increase last year and with the primary driver of the softer US sales trends we saw. For the second quarter, US average basket was up driven by a higher average ticket and US customer traffic was down. Lastly, earnings per share of $0.69 were at the high end of our plan.

Now to our divisional results. At Marmaxx, second quarter segment profit was 12.9%. Comp store sales decreased 2% versus an 18% open only comp increase last year. Again, it was great to see their overall apparel comp slightly positive. While customer traffic was down, we saw an increase in Marmaxx's average basket driven by a higher average ticket.

At HomeGoods, second quarter segment profit of 2.7% was hurt by nearly 800 basis points of incremental freight costs. Comp store sales decreased 13% versus a 36% open only comp increase last year when we saw outsized spending in home-related categories. HomeGoods average basket increased significantly, driven by a higher average ticket and customer traffic decreased.

We were very pleased with the improvement in profitability we saw at our international divisions. At TJX Canada, second quarter segment profit margin of 15.8% exceeded their pre-COVID Q2 fiscal 2020 level. Overall, sales increased 22% and benefited from having stores open all quarter this year. On a constant currency basis, TJX Canada sales were up 28% in the second quarter.

At TJX International, second quarter segment margin of 7% was significantly higher than the first quarter and also exceeded the pre-COVID Q2 fiscal 2020 level. Overall, sales decreased 7%. This sales decline is entirely due to the impact of foreign exchange. On a constant currency basis, TJX International sales were up 6% in the second quarter.

As to e-commerce, it remains a very small percentage of our overall sales. We continue to add new brands and categories to our sites so shoppers can see something new every time they visit.

Moving to inventory balance sheet, inventory was up 39% versus the second quarter last year. On a per store basis, inventory is up 35% on a constant currency basis. We are very comfortable with our balance sheet and store inventory levels. Importantly, overall store inventory turns are better than our pre-pandemic levels.

I'll finish with our liquidity and shareholder distributions. During the second quarter, we generated $641 million of operating cash flow and ended the quarter with $3.5 billion in cash. In the second quarter, we returned over $1 billion to shareholders through our buyback and dividend programs.

Now, I will turn it back to Ernie.

Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Thanks, Scott. I'd like to start by sharing the key traffic sales and profitability opportunities we see for the remainder of the year. Starting with the top line. First, we are excited about our merchandising plans for the fall and holiday season. Again, this year, we will be following a collecting assortments to our stores and online multiple times a week. This is a strategy that is worked well for many years and sets us apart from other retailers during the busy holiday season as shoppers can see something new every time they visit us. We are confident that we can execute on our merchandising initiatives and manage our supply chain to keep our shelves fully stocked.

Second, availability of merchandise across good, better and best brands is exceptional. We have plenty of open to buy and I have great confidence that our buying team of more than 1,200 buyers will bring the right brands, fashions and values to our consumers throughout the years. Next, we are laser focused on driving traffic and sales with our marketing initiatives. This year, we have sharpened our messaging to reinforce our value leadership position. Each of our banners are communicating that we offer shoppers more for their money and at the same time, deliver great brands and quality.

In an environment where consumer wallets are stretched, we believe it is as important as ever to amplify our value messaging across television, digital and social media platforms. I also want to highlight that our customer satisfaction scores remain very strong. Further, we continue to attract a significant number of Millennial and Gen Z shoppers, which we believe bodes well for the future.

Moving the profitability, we are extremely pleased that we are able to increase our full-year pre-tax margin guidance in this environment. Giving us confidence of the merchandise margin opportunities we see. The buying environment is very attractive and we believe, we can continue to benefit from buying better. Further, our pricing initiative is working very well. Our teams have done an outstanding job implementing this initiative over the past year and we are very pleased that our value perception scores remain very strong.

Again, we are seeing extraordinary off price buying opportunities in the marketplace and have no issues with overall availability. We are in a terrific inventory position and we have plenty of open to buy to take advantage of the current environment. This allows us to offer even more exciting merchandise and value to our shoppers, which is our top priority every day. Lastly, we remain focused on managing expenses and continue to look at ways to operate our business more efficiently.

Now I'd like to remind you of the characteristics of our business that we believe strongly position us to continue our successful growth around the world over the medium and long-term. First and foremost is the strong appeal of our great value, outstanding merchandise and differentiated treasure hunt shopping experience. Further, we believe the ability to touch and feel merchandise and take it on the same day is very important to consumers.

Second, we see an excellent opportunity to grow our global store base by at least other 1,500 stores in our current geographies. We are extremely confident that there will be more than enough real estate locations and merchandise available to support our store growth plans.

Again, being one of the most flexible retailers in the world, is a tremendous advantage. The flexibility of our opportunistic buying, supply chain and store formats, enable us to change up our floor space to expand the hot categories and trends that shoppers are looking for. That's the profitability beyond this year, we remain committed to returning to our pre-COVID pre-tax margin level of 10.6% within three years.

We expect that across all of our divisions, our merchandise margin opportunities, the moderation of expense headwinds, particularly freight and our focus on expense management, will contribute to our improved profitability. As always, we believe driving outsized sales is our best opportunity to improve pretax margin over the long term.

Turning to corporate responsibility, I'd like to update you want our commitment to building a more inclusive and diverse workplace. Last year, we completed our global associates inclusion and diversity survey. This was an important step and we used the findings to help define three global inclusion and diversity priorities for the company; increase the representation of diverse associates throughout all levels of our talent pipeline, equip leaders with the tools to support difference with awareness, fairness, sensitivity and transparency; and empower our associates to integrate inclusive behaviors, language and practices and how we work together and understand our role, responsibility and inclusion.

We have a number of initiatives underway to help support these priorities. For example, we have introduced a new leadership competency and cultural factor focused on inclusion. In addition, Associate Resource Groups similar to those we have in the US have launched and are now active in both Canada and Europe. Also, teams throughout the organization as set up committees to better incorporate inclusion and diversity into our everyday work.

In our communities, we continue to support a number of organizations that work with black communities and other communities of color. In addition, we have deepened relationships with some non-profit partners in the US to expand our reach to diverse students for recruitment efforts. We appreciate that this is a work in progress and we remain committed to our global priorities and helping associates feel welcome, valued and engaged.

In closing, I want to emphasize my confidence in the future of TJX. We have a long track record of successfully operating through many different types of economic and retail environments. We believe, value is as important as ever to consumers and delivering great value has been our mission for over 45 years. We are very confident in the power of our off-price buying and pricing initiative, while maintaining our value gap with other retailers as always.

We continue to invest in our stores and shopping experience, which we believe positions us strongly and we remain committed to returning cash to shareholders. Further, we have a management team with decades of off-price expertise at TJX, and a very deep bench of talent who have successfully navigated through the unprecedented COVID environment. I am convinced that we are set up well to grow our top and bottom lines over the medium and long-term and I'm confident in our plans to grow TJX into an increasingly profitable $60 billion plus revenue company.

Now, I'll turn the call back to Scott from for some additional comments and then, we'll open it up for questions. Scott?

Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Thanks again. Ernie. I'll start with the full year. We now expect full year US comp sales to be down 2% to 3% versus an outsized 17% US open only comp increase last year. This guidance now reflects the flow through of our second-quarter US comp sales and our expectations for the second half of the year, which assumes our three-year stack US comp continues at levels similar to recent trends.

For the full year, we are now planning total TGX sales in the range of $49.6 to $49.9 billion. The lower sales guidance includes our lower than planned second quarter sales and our updated sales expectation for the second half of the year. Despite the reduction in our sales plan, we are pleased to be raising our guidance for the full year adjusted pretax margin to 9.7% to 9.9%. This is 10 basis points higher than our previous guidance due to our assumption for even stronger flow-through for the back half of the year.

Our improved profitability outlook versus our prior guidelines is due to stronger merchandise margin, better expense management and less incremental freight and wage pressure expected in the second half of the year. For modeling purposes, we are now assuming 140 basis points of incremental freight expense and 70 basis points of incremental wage costs.

For full year adjusted earnings per share, we now planning a range of $3.05 to $3.13, which is up 7% to 10% over last years adjusted $2.85. This guidance now includes a $0.03 negative impact from FX that was not contemplated in our original full-year plan. Excluding this impact, the high end of our earnings per share guidance would be the same as our original plan.

For modeling purposes, for the full year, we're currently anticipating an adjusted tax rate of 25.5%, net interest expense of approximately $20 million and a weighted average share count of approximately 1.17 billion. We remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders through our dividend and stock repurchase programs. In fiscal 2023, we continue to expect to buy back 2.25 to 2.5 billion of TJX stock.

Now to our third quarter guidance. For the third quarter were planning pretax margin in the range of 10.1% to 10.4%. This guidance assumes approximately 100 basis points of incremental freight expense and about 80 basis points of incremental wage costs. In the third quarter, we are planning US comp source sales to be down 3% to 5% over an outsized 16% US open only comp store increase last year.

Next, we are planning third quarter TJX, sales in the range of $12.1 billion to $12.3 billion. For modeling purposes, in the third quarter were currently anticipating a tax rate of 25.8%, net interest expense of approximately $2 million and a weighted average share count of 1.17 billion. As a result of these assumptions, were planning third quarter EPS of $0.77 to $0.81 per share. Our third quarter and full-year guidance implies that for the fourth quarter, pretax margin will be in the range of 10.1% to 10.4%. US comp stores will be in the range of flat to down 1% and earnings per share will be in the range of $0.92 to $0.96.

In closing, I want to reiterate that we are confident with our medium and long-term growth and profitability plans. Further, We have a strong balance sheet and are in excellent financial position to navigate the current environment, while simultaneously investing in the growth of our business and returning significant cash to our shareholders.

Now, we are happy to take your questions and as we do every quarter, we going to ask that you please limit your questions to one per person and one part to each question to keep the call on schedule and so that we can answer questions from as many analysts as we can. Thanks, and now, we will open it up to questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Lorraine Hutchinson. Your line is open.

Q - Lorraine Hutchinson{BIO 4433440 <GO>}
Thank you. Good morning. Can you just talk a little bit about your view of the US consumer and how that changed over the course of the quarter? Are you seeing any push back to the price increases you've taken and are you seeing that trade down customer shop your store a little bit more? Thank you.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Thanks. Lorraine. First of all, US customer trend in the quarter, it's moved around a bit, I think what happened in this quarter is when a little bit of that that fuel spike, if you remember back in the middle of the quarter, that's when we had a big ramp-up on that. In addition to really food, those are the two inflationary categories that really we feel can impact our consumer the most.

But the fuel has obviously come down more recently, so I'm thinking there, we might have a bit of a lag in terms of the benefit of that have been coming down and that could work out better prices this quarter moves on. There was no -- let me be clear on your question about pushback on the pricing. We have zero -- not only do we do qualitative studies on it, we are actually able to measure a little down to the SKU level turns, how we selling an item with the retail has been adjusted, but even entire categories, departments in the store.

In fact, we're measuring our turns and all of these things relative to pre-COVID Fiscal 2020, calendar 2019 and in most cases, we are actually turning our inventories faster than then. And that as you know, is a very good year for us and a real actually model of business that we're very happy with from an inventory turn and sales perspective. So, we have zero concern. Overall, we had a couple of items here or there, we have found and we react quickly if it hasn't worked but I would say we in the our batting record is in the probably 95% zone. So, great question. By the way, because of course we monitor that every week.

So that has been a non-issue. Again we felt Lorraine. It was prudent to when we went to this more conservative sales for the back half. I would tell you we did that and knowing that we want to be conservative. It's been a little ball it's moved around a bit. We tend to look at the thi-year stacks, how do our sales compared to FY '20 and that's kind of where we looked at the recent trend at the end of the second quarter and that's we just kind of apply that going forward, our intention is always, as you know to beat that the management team and every division is on, on a mode to beat that I have to tell you that I think too far out for us to change the numbers right now.

When we have Q4 is where we feel like that a lot of opportunity for us and I would say if you look at, and I know you're aware of this, we kind of ran out of some steam there in some categories and businesses. Last year, and I'm sure we'll get into a more on other questions during the call, but we have a. I feel like a great opportunity to drive some more incremental sales in Q4 specifically. Thanks for the question.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from Matthew Boss. Your line is open.

Q - Matthew Boss{BIO 17343314 <GO>}
Great, thanks. So, it's kind of a perfect setup for my question Ernie. So on the overall product availability, are there any inventory constraints by category that you still see the remaining or on the very attractive buying environment and maybe some of the category opportunity you left on the table last year that you cited, do you see this translating now to an optimal fall and holiday assortment across apparel and home and maybe just last, could you elaborate on the excitement you cited in the release for some of the back half initiatives to drive traffic.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Sure. No. Great question, Matt. And it does piggyback on what we started to talk about with Larrain well constraints I would tell you, there were no, the only constraints that would apply in this discussion is the constraints and us having the whole back all the merchants from buying too much too soon. So we have, this is self-inflicted constraints we're putting on because the teams right now and I know you know my senior team right now one of their prime responsibilities has been too.

This really gets at the need of what's been going on has been to get X holding the margins back from buying too much too soon. As you know, we mentioned in the release. And I think even ahead of this, many of you were aware of the amount of goods in the market. I hesitate to use the word unprecedented, but it is at a different level. I would say that we seen, and it's across our good, better and best zones and so I'm going to give you an example, that speaks to how place where we been challenged, but I would tell you, gives us a level of optimism as you would say to getting to that optimal mix and an excitement level for the back half.

So, we been struggling in our home area has other retailers have and you can see with the HomeGoods sales. However, they have done as Marmaxx specifically both have gone in and kept their inventory is very clean and taken aggressive markdowns to ensure that we go into the back half, with no liabilities and mix so that we can deliver as much fresh excitement based on what's working and chase the hotter trends and vendors so HomeGoods specifically again, where we been a little softer. On the three-year stack, then we would have liked is in a terrific inventory position now they put in a lot of work to get there, but what they've done is created significant open to buy, to the point of and normally we don't give numbers like I'm about to give you, but I would tell you at this point in time that we are going to buy four million units in HomeGoods over the next few weeks all to be what we call latter plant and shipped into September for selling in September and because of the market situation with the availability there, we're able to go after the categories that are happening the healthier ones on home in buy them even better.

So we've been buying goods really better than ever in HomeGoods recently and I think it's going to help us drive sales, because we are going to be so fresh, we going to taking some of the best goods were going to be able to pick and choose out of the market, because there's so much availability and that's again four million units that will be bought in the next couple of weeks and shipped to the stores and to sell by ship and sell in the next month of September so Marmaxx larger scale great inventory position.

I think what's happening in the brands and this Mike pre and some of the other questions, but for the excitement for fourth quarter to get to the optimum mix when we get the fourth-quarter brands means so much for gift giving and so what I'm very happy about what I'm starting to see on the iron order again significant open to buy, significant availability across better and best and good out there. As I think we're going to have a mix that has even more brands and some new vendors that we didn't even have last year and some of our hottest categories. I actually get an update on key vendor buys every week. And the last two weeks of yielded some vendors, it's a meaningful quantities that I know we did not have last year.

So it's all tough to measure and put into the sales forecast right now, it's just, it just gets me excited that I think we have some upside there. So over the long-winded answer but you touching on some of the most exciting part of of the model and the part of the secret sauce that really I think is, is going to set us apart from everyone else. So thanks.

Q - Matthew Boss{BIO 17343314 <GO>}
Great color. Thanks. Ernie.

Operator
Our next question will come from Kimberly Greenberger. Your line is open.

Q - Kimberly Greenberger.{BIO 3277763 <GO>}
Great, thanks so much for taking the question. Ernie and Scott, you guys have been talking about getting back to this sort of 10% plus pretax margin in the back half. And I mean in a year when so many retailers are struggling with margin visibility you guys look to be sort of solidly on track to hit those targets.

I wanted to know if you can sort of step back and talk about margin, not specific targets necessarily for 2023 or 2024, but just what are the puts and takes as we head into next year in the following. What are the puts who takes on margin. And do you see opportunity to sort of claw back even more of the margin here over the next couple of years. That we saw under some pressure through COVID. Thanks.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Yeah. Kimberly, I will let Scott jump in on some of the big pieces of this, but what I'd like to highlight one thing I mentioned in the script is, well, first of all, I'm thrilled with we and we called this out back at really at the beginning of the year that we thought we could approach getting approach at 10%. We're getting there is we're talking, I think at 97 to 99 this year. But even over the three years. Scott, I think will talk to this is we're feeling good about getting back to that pre-COVID 10.6% for TJX, which is right. I think what you're getting at, and he's going to give us some of the, some of the puts and takes.

But let me give you another piece on that. So, I think is really one thing is a moderation obviously of some of the other expenses around us freight for example, we realize where wage is going, that's been something we haven't talked on this call about but we kind of have a good feel for where that's going. The big game changer right now in this environment and addition to what Scott is going to talk about is our merchandise margin that I'm leaving them a lot to talk about is the merchandise margin opportunities we see really from two things we've been talking more in the last two calls about retailing Kimberly right retailing selectively better in the way were changing retail, but the buying better is one of the things, right now we seeing is, we're able to really because of the availability out there lower our costs on goods and so what kind of over the next couple of years.

What I am envisioning is we're going to win on both sides of it on the retail and on the cost of the goods because our buyers are doing a terrific job in the market and in the market right now. Across all the different categories and vendors is really yielding some amazing opportunity and if this will not be short term based on what's happening in the industry as far as store closures and market shift and online Pat online shifting patterns where we think we get market share, but we get margin opportunity on that, Scott, I don't know if you.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
I need to put some, got a little drive the last few minutes, but the the a few things. The first I'd say that we starting as Ernie said. I mean, when we started the year, we thought we are going to be similar to last year. In that 95 96 range. So the fact that we have dropped effectively ex FX almost two billion in sales from our original guidance and our margins are going up.

I think just speaks as Ernie I think said several different times to the model and our ability to in a sluggish environment we never said we immune from sales. We've been able to take advantage of those other aspects of the business. Under the gross margin and the and expense management that we do when we flex down again Ernie, I think touched on it, but we managed our markdowns quite well, maybe a little more due to some of the home sales. But our markdowns have have been slightly higher, but in line with what we would have expected and our, as we move through that's is the freight starts to moderate a lot of this has to do with the freight, we did say if the environment was such that the freight would moderate.

We would, we would be able to improve our margin. certainly is what happening in the back half, and we still would expect our freight rates to be to be difficult to be better next year. Some of that has to do a lot with the what our teams are doing the logistics folks and others in terms of a lot of the mitigation strategies getting longer-term contract rates more using much more contract rate contract rates on the spot market, then the spot market for ocean freight we are taking advantage of where we're moving our goods into what ports. And I think a lot and a lot of other strategies and we think, though some of the demurrage costs and other things. We believe we going to be going down next year. So some of that's reflected in our back half and some of that we think will continue into the next year by starting at a higher base. Next year, I mean we would hope that in a sluggish environment worldwide. From an economic point of view homes in home, obviously although we changed the mix that apparel is at 5% more than what it used to be still more than what it was in home then compared to what it was in 20 and I think we're maintaining these margins we go into next year and get back to the level of comps, we would see pre-COVID. I think that with, with some slight increases in retail, that to the level we see this year, we should be able to, as we spoken over the last several quarters, increase our profitability. assuming as Ernie said there is no major changes to the headwinds, so also, this hasn't been a other retailers have talked to it.

The flow of both the merchandise into our distribution centers worldwide. It has certainly not been optimal from an expense efficiency point of view. And like what we call our output per hour. So I think those are things that next year, we would hope to get better. once we flow a little better and I think get back to having less lead times in buying. So we buying closer to need. So I think again it's all setting us up well for a continued improvement on a more normalized sales increase.

Q - Kimberly Greenberger.{BIO 3277763 <GO>}
Great. Very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Paul Lashway. Your line is open.

Q - Paul Lejuez{BIO 6299659 <GO>}
Hey, thanks guys., if you can talk a little bit about what you saw throughout the quarter on a monthly basis very changes in traffic patterns and the detail you might be able to provide by and Ernie usually you say something about the quarter-to-date period. So curious if you're seeing comp trend in line with that third quarter comp guidance. Earlier, I think you made a comment about maybe there being a lag effect on the gas price reduction. Does that mean that you have not seen any sort of a pickup has gas prices have come down, I mean you could say on 3Q quarter-to-date. Thanks.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Yeah, I'll let Scott jump in, but I'll talk about the quarter-to-date. Basically, the guidance we gave is based on how were trending so that's were right in line with with what we just gave for guidance to your point, could you know I'm hoping we get a little benefit as that fuel factor wears off a little and the other dynamic that we're not sure of that was in the quarter. We haven't talked about it as we had some weather noise I guess a little during the quarter where the weather was for apparel was a little, it was just extremely hot and start in areas of the country, so I don't know if that hit us by a little. So this is where we say we wanted to be prudent on our go-forward comp estimates and stay conservative my goal and the team's goal is to beat those and I think we just think we have upside, if you look at some of those other issues as well as we going into this quarter so far. I would tell you our LOE was a little less than probably we would have liked. And that is in that is getting into the stores as we speak. And I think that could give us a little bump up at the end of August. Going into September because we did run a little lighter than we would have liked that the end of July, so that hit Q2 and it's really hit us a little. Having said that, again, we're trending right now where we're giving you the guidance. So hopefully that gives a little, color there.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Yeah, I just to add what Ernie said I think we, been we done the sales. I'll call it forecasting or what we put in our guidance. Exactly the same way. At the end of, from. We started the year to the first quarter to now and that we've taken whether it whatever we think the appropriate period, but it's generally been 46 weeks of the most recent trend and use that for the rest of the year. Regardless of trying to, is there any said, we think we might be able to do better in the fourth quarter. But we've just held that trend could that's what we're seeing, because last year was such a volatile year on the upside, were those comps as we said many times we on, 21% in the second quarter 16% in the third quarter moderating in the fourth quarter of last year but still higher than typical year. So, we've just felt that with the more prudent way from a sales perspective within within the sales and in in the adjustment, it's more HomeGoods adjustment then Marmaxx adjustment as our home sales have the HomeGoods sales dropped a bit more than the Marmaxx sales from the prior trend and that's reflected in our go-forward trends.

Other than that. Addressing maybe the first question that was asked on the call, we Ernie alluded to, whether it's inflation or gas prices in the first quarter for the first time in five, six, seven years. We saw that are lower where our stores are in lower income areas were dropped below the higher income areas that is still true through the second quarter, although that change from the first quarter. The second was equal. It was, equal but though the higher demographic stores, you are still doing better than the lower and again that's what pretty much of a big change versus the last five to seven year trend everything. I think it just seem to at least for our spend stay similar type of impact across the different demographic levels and again not much change. Also from a geographic perspective. Within the United States as well. Pretty, pretty equal the change from the first quarter to the second.

Q - Paul Lejuez{BIO 6299659 <GO>}
Yeah, thanks, thanks for the color. Scott hurting what drove that slow, relative to what you would have like to be. And the quarter there. Well, when we, So what we do is we look at the way sales are trending and so when we were having that little bumps down in July we we slowed the shipping a little bit and that's what we do, it's a big ship. And so we probably ended up with a little bit less shipping, then we would have liked.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
However we reacted a week or two later and we know it will be in good shape. At the end here. We have an advantage. Paul in the way we stage goods in our warehouse right because we've always talked about it, we can use it to manage. So if we see say with this happens, quite a bit by the way, if we see sales slowing were able to slow our shipping out of our DCs. But sometimes you get caught off guard and this was one of those where we ship to the sales. But then the sales started nudging up a little. And we realized we probably could have shipped a little bit more. And so it's just, that's our own execution. Yeah, I would tell you there was nothing impact of that other than us, but the teams are great and they reacted quickly and so at the end up with, there is a couple of, weeks a blip where we're probably giving up a little business. But then we'll be back on track really in about two weeks from now so yeah, good question. It's, that is part of a bit if it was easy anyone would do it right.

But, it's a big ship when you have that many stores and I give the teams. A lot of credit, because they caught it they catch it quickly and by the way, I'm giving you the time we don't talk about the times when nine out of 10x if we slow the shipping our increase the shipping-based on the trend. It happens to be the right amount which is always easy this just happens to be one of the times a little on the wrong side of it.

Q - Paul Lejuez{BIO 6299659 <GO>}
Got it. Thanks a lot. Good luck.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Jay Sole. Your line is open.

Q - Jay Sole{BIO 16089358 <GO>}
Great, thank you so much. Just curious about what's baked in into the guidance in terms of what you see from competition from the other off price retailers meeting, whether it's a Nordstrom Rack or Burlington Ross like given that obviously inventory availability. It seems really strong for your company, but maybe it's not so great out there for everybody at large. Do you expecting to get more competitive and what impact you think that would have on the business. Thank you.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Yeah, Jay. So we are pretty simple with the teams here and again our buyers are excellent and our planning and allocation team and we the good news is we kind of keep them focused on I tell them not to worry too much about what the competitors are doing because let's face it, we're in a bit of a fortunate position. This is anything we're doing but we're so big and we have a lot of strong relationships with certain, some of the strongest relationships with certain vendors and some of the vendors don't overlap as much with with those competitors. You talking about and some do from what we seen and what we here at this plenty of goods honestly to go to everybody in the off-price world right now and they typically is by the way, but right now we don't foresee that as being any issue,

I don't, know how they that's up to them as far as how they're running their open to buys and what they're doing is as far as how far they want to buy out or whatever we right now. If anything, our strategy on the buying of goods is to get more liquid and it has been for the last month and to buy less further out than we typically have because of, we are not worried about other competitors buying the goods. We think there's going to be more goods an unusual amount more goods across all of the branded areas, which by the way, going back to what I mentioned before, I think for Q4 gift giving. I think we're going to have some of the best branded content we had in a while. Again, regardless of what competitors are doing in terms of how much they are buying or not but.

Now, let me say, good question. We do talk about our merchants, talk about in a category with a vendor A based on this amount of goods, do we think that could go to one of the other competitors is this important for us to have or what they weigh all of that out when they're making buys. And again, that's why I give them all the credit on handling at all. Really, really well in this environment, we. I have to say we like an environment like this, where there is a lot of strangely enough, a lot of volatility around that generally bodes well for us because in the end, I usually think there is a market share opportunity for us to keep getting additional brick and mortar market share from other brick and mortar out there because the model is so flexible and it will allow us to chase the category trends more nimbly than most retailers but thanks for your question.

Q - Jay Sole{BIO 16089358 <GO>}
Got it. Thank you so much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Brooke Roach, your line is open.

Q - Brooke Roach{BIO 20387757 <GO>}
Good morning and thank you so much for taking our question Ernie you made some comments about the strong buying environment and the opportunity that that are buying can drive some of the margin improvement that is underpinning the improvement to 10.6% pretax margins, can you discuss your view on the longevity of this benefit and perhaps the opportunity for this buying environment to persist even when we've heard about some order book cuts into the second half of this year and also a more promotional retail environment overall. Thank you.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Sure. Brooke, yeah. These are just some of these topics are things we talk about internally quite frequently. First of all, what we think we have multiple years of longevity to this strategy from what we seeing there is even probably more opportunity and the retailing of the buying of goods as we continue, as well as by the way not just merchant driven some of the costs that Scott mentioned. It could be a couple few year trend because they some of those freight costs went up so dramatically Sophie it could be kind of a bit of a slow correction that we don't think it's going to happen fast. So between buying goods retailing the way were retailing.

The fact that we mean more to the market than ever before and key vendors and as well as in, you're talking about, by the way the promotional environment. So, we haven't seen the promotional environment if anything because of what's happened with inflation. Again, we look at the promotional environment is less promotional and a lot of these costs are baked in even going forward I foresee the promotional environment on not getting any worse for a few years, I think we good for a couple of years there and as I said, back in the script, our mission still is our out the door retail that we provide to the consumer has to maintain that gap between the outthedoor retailer that they have and what we sell it for our out the door, retail, which is always our ticket price. I do. If you on to a whole we could spend a whole phone call on this, but if you look at the promotions happened there is still, as you know, a lot of retailers that are still doing the very high low game of a sale all the time and it's. I always look at that where consumers today are looking for authenticity they looking for an exciting treasure hunt and entertaining the shopping experience and stores and we continue along with that value equation. We continue to provide those two things.

In fact, one thing we haven't talked about today is we're very bullish on keeping our store experience, right in line with the strong merchandise values and excitement that we're getting so where, we going back to our remodeling program aggressively. We have new prototype in our Marshalls business specifically that we're excited about that. there starting to rollout because we want our, we believe there is a market share gain, not just on number one by our merchandise value. Yes. But number two by the shopping experience. So that is a long, that's a long-term play as well just so you know, but I know you were talking about, about the buying and the retailing, no reason to think this won't go on for a number of years. And then it is good question, Brooke.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Omar Saad. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning. Ernie. I was hoping maybe you could elaborate a little bit the comment you made earlier about the availability of brand and the excitement we have around, especially for the fourth quarter around brands. Are you talking about Designer Brands this kind of across categories is more specific to apparel or some of the fashion areas and maybe also talk about for TJ Maxx obviously TJX Companies obviously known for its flexibility at scale. Maybe talk about broadly your ability to re-assort away from home categories if they going to be soft for a while as you deal with it is consumers deal with inflation and you cycle those big gains from last year and towards some of those more reopening type categories is the organization as a whole, have the ability to kind of shift its merchandising assortment. Thanks.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Yeah, No, Two big things that we're approaching. I'll start with the reassorted from home. We've been doing that consistently in Marmaxx and in the international divisions and in total TJX, where we have moved funding out of HomeGoods and into Marmaxx and within Europe and in Canada. We do the same thing where we take open to buy and sometimes by the way we move actual merchants out of those areas to the areas that are more trending areas that we forecast over the next 12 to 18 months. So, we have been doing that consistently since we were watching the home trend and it's really one of the strengths of the business model, because we can do it so quickly. Again we buy, so much of the inventory, so close in relative to traditional retailers, we don't get stock with this big liability of home product like many retailers would and you tend to read about in some of the other retailers that a more broad in advance, how they run into really a profit hit because they're stuck with the liability. We are not to that degree, we took our markdowns. As I said earlier, and we were able to move more over on your first part Omar, which is interesting, the brands are across. Yeah, I'm not just, this is actually not just designer and not just apparel. So, we getting, we getting some up brands. I can give you what they are, but this is applies to accessories hardlines if you walk in our store even in and some of the, some of the hardlines either good and Dole where home or in our queue line area, you're going to see some new vendors there.

But you're also going to see that we've gone after some of those categories more aggressively than before because we getting new vendors at different levels of goods. So when we talk about good, better, best, sometimes it can be assumed. I'm talking about on the best end is design or apparel and it is and always that way. It's actually I guess you would call it better or design our hardlines of merchandise that we have, some of which by the way is as we, as we go to Chris Smith on gift giving, which I think you mentioned some of those hardlines better vendors, which are special our great gifts and it's not just the apparel, because as you know, you probably personally our friends.

Today, we don't, consumers, launches give up a parallel, it's also other hardlines gifts, some of it in the tech area we have that tech area out there in the queue line and that's often given those are great gifts, especially, when we are able to buy some better brands on that. And so, that's all the type that we're really excited about and I think it's going to help us with that Q4 opportunity.

Q - Omar Saad{BIO 5302683 <GO>}
Thanks. Ernie great color. Good luck for 3Q thank you.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Omar thank you.

Operator
The final question of the day comes from John Kernan. Your line is open.

Q - John Kernan{BIO 16746614 <GO>}
All right. Thanks for squeezing me in. And congrats on a nice quarter. I mean that's a believer the point, but just can you talk to the mark on opportunity, you've talked about in prior calls, it seems like you're getting more conviction in in the opportunity in the deals are getting from vendors and then maybe just elaborate on what this means for merch margin and gross margin as we go forward. Thanks.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
Sure, John. Well, we spent more time Scott and I both really on the prior two calls, we were, because I guess it was more new news was talking about the retailing of the goods in terms of how that would create some mark on an ability to offset costs start with that whole strategy again that's us we're a byproduct of the fact that all the retailers around us for the most part have had to raise retails on certain categories or some, as you know I've done it more on a widespread raising a retail across the board. We didn't do that. We did a very selective and surgically but what's happened is for different reasons. In this environment, our teams and then we see this every week are also getting mark on improvement from the costs and that is the reason we're talking about that more. And I think it's almost as though the two-pronged has even off because we were talking before about the retail is giving us, you can see from these results that we delivering and the outlook for the back half of the year that we very bullish in our merchandise margin and it's really because of both.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Yeah, just to echo what Ernie just said. Given our., call it, whatever the better retailing strategy, all of our improvement versus our last guidance not at least if I'm a margin merchandise margin perspective is all on the buy. so, our average retail is up whatever we had planned it to be up, but it's all better buying. In the across all of our divisions, and it's fairly significant improvement in our mark on in the back half of the year. So it's, it's better buying.

Costs are going up but the retailers are going up, but more, more than the cost that I. Yeah, that's the other way, right. And part of that no one asked part of the inventory is up is you have freight and cost impact that, but that's buried in May that in the overall inventory but costs are going up but the retailers are going up more than the the cost, but we have that baked into our both original and last guidance.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
John. And the other thing John that goes hand in hand with this because that wouldn't that would all just be okay if we thought all were doing that, but our sales, but were hurting sales the opposite is happening because proportionately, our values, you could on many of these things or even better value today than they were because retails have gone up even more than what we going up. I think it was in the the first question, close to that. Where I was talking about our turns are actually faster than they were in FY 2020 which is an indication that when the customer's in the store the values are actually hitting of them as a stronger than they been for a few years. So, it's really nice to in a really nice to see you need both, right. You can't just have gone up by and then the retail move if you're not selling the goods at the right in the customer not seeing the fact that you still providing and tie in many cases we providing because of what's happening around us more out the door value relative to the competition than ever before.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
And with a slight moderate with the moderation in freight and with better buying. the back half of the year. Our merchandise margin including all the freight pressure is actually going to be up right. Versus it was down in the first half of the year. It's kind of not to belabor the point, but it's really what we just experienced in Q2 on the way we're guiding. Yes. With more conservative sales but healthy profit directionally is a really, it is a testament and a great example of tax book utilization of this business model and you couldn't do that. If you didn't have the right teams and again we have such great associates here that are executing it as well for merchandise that you're planning our marketing in our distribution area logistics, it's all working and this is just a great I think evidence of how we able to flex and take advantage of the market.

Q - John Kernan{BIO 16746614 <GO>}
Excellent, thanks guys.

A - Scott Goldenberg{BIO 21870549 <GO>}
Thank you, John.

A - Ernie Herrman{BIO 6943642 <GO>}
That was our last question so thank you all for joining us today and we will be updating you again on our third quarter earnings call in November, and we look forward to it. Thank you everybody.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes your conference call for today. You may all disconnect. Thank you for participating.