Q1 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Carrie Strom, Senior Vice President and President, Global Allergan Aesthetics
Jeffrey R. Stewart, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer
Liz Shea, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations
Neil Gallagher, Vice President and Chief Medical Officer
Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Robert A. Michael, Vice Chairman, Finance and Commercial Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Tom Hudson, Senior Vice President, R&D and Chief Scientific Officer.
Other Participants
Alice Nettleton, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC
Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi
Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase
Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Gary Nachman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America
Josh Schimmer, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo
Robyn Karnauskas, Analyst, Truist Securities
Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley,
Vamil Divan, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie First Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference call. All participants will be able to listen-only until the question and answer portion of this call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations.

Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Good morning, and thanks for joining us. Also in the call with me today are Rick in Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Rob Michael Vice Chairman Finance and Commercial Operations and Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Stewart, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer and Tom Hudson, Senior Vice President, R&D and Chief Scientific Officer.

Joining us for the Q&A portion of the call are Carrie Strom, Senior Vice President and President, Global Allergan Aesthetics; Neil Gallagher, Vice President and Chief Medical Officer and Roopal Thakkar, Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs.

Before we get started some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Additional information about these risks and uncertainties is included in our SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law.

On today's conference call, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on our website. Following our prepared remarks we will take your question. So with that I will now turn the call over to Rick.

Richard A. Gonzalez{BIO 1973579 <GO>}
Thank you Liz. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll briefly comment on our overall performance. Then Jeff, Tom and Rob will review our first quarter business highlights, pipeline progress and financial results in more detail.

I'm pleased with the excellent start to 2022. It further reinforces our confidence in the long-term fundamentals of the business. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.16, exceeding our expectations. Total net revenue of more than $13.5 billion was up 5.4% on an operational basis, also above our expectations. These results demonstrate strong momentum across several key products and portfolios, including robust double-digit operational revenue growth from Skyrizi, Rinvoq, Neuroscience and Aesthetics.

Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well. We are achieving impressive market share gains in psoriasis which remains a significant market opportunity. Skyrizi's recent launch in psoriatic arthritis, as well as the anticipated regulatory approval in Crohn's Disease should also serve as important growth drivers over the long term.

Rinvoq is also contributing compelling sales growth. Prescription trends in RA have recently stabilized as we expected, and we are making excellent progress repositioning the brand as the leading second-line agent based on the robust data generated across our broad development program. The early launch trends for Rinvoq in both atopic dermatitis and psoriatic arthritis are highly encouraging with commercial access and paid prescriptions expected to ramp significantly over the coming months. We anticipate that these two new indications, along with the recent US approval in ulcerative colitis should add substantial revenue growth for Rinvoq over the long term.

Neuroscience remains an exciting opportunity for our company. Vraylar continues to have strong momentum across our currently approved indication and the pending regulatory approval in major depressive disorder represents a significant upside to current projection. In migraine, our portfolio of distinct therapies which Ubrelvy, Qulipta and Botox Therapeutics is demonstrating robust double-digit sales growth. With the migraine market anticipated to roughly double in size over the next several years, there is significant headroom for continued revenue growth with these compelling therapies.

Aesthetics is once again exceeding expectations. The category continues to grow robust double-digit especially in toxins and fillers where there is substantial opportunity for further market penetration. Our commercial team is executing at a high level with targeted promotion and enhanced digital services, including our Alle loyalty program driving strong market share performance across our major brands.

In summary, this is an exciting time for AbbVie and I'm extremely pleased with the evolution and momentum of our diverse portfolio. We're making excellent progress with the launches of several new products and indications which will collectively add meaningful revenue for AbbVie as commercial access ramps for each of these opportunities over the remainder of this year. We're off to another exceptional start and our long-term growth prospects remain strong.

I'd now like to take a brief moment to thank Mike Severino for his contributions to the success of AbbVie over the last eight years. As you know, Mike has decided to leave AbbVie at the end of May to pursue another career opportunity and we wish him all the best. I'd also like to take this opportunity to formally introduce to you, Tom Hudson. Tom joined AbbVie back in 2016 as the Head of Discovery and Early Development. In 2018 Tom undertook responsibilities for AbbVie's entire discovery organization. In 2019 he was promoted to the Head of AbbVie R&D and Chief Scientific Officer, where he assumed responsibility for all of AbbVie's R&D.

Tom has an impressive background as a clinical scientist. His medical specialty is clinical immunology and allergy. Tom played a critical role in the human genome project while working at both the Whitehead Institute and MIT, where Tom led the team that mapped the Human Genome. Tom was also instrumental in the International HapMap Project to refine the genetic architecture of the human genome.

Tom went on to further lead the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, which included discovery and translational cancer research, with a clinical network of more than a 1,000 investigators. Tom will be providing an update on our continued pipeline progress to you later in the call. But first, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?

Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Thank you, Rick. We continue to demonstrate strong commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. I'll start with immunology, which delivered global revenues of more than $6.1 billion, reflecting growth of 8.1% on an operational basis. Humira global sales were approximately $4.7 billion, down 1.8% on an operational basis with low-single digit revenue growth in the US, offset by biosimilar competition across international markets where revenues were down 17.9% operational.

Skyrizi global revenues were $940 million, reflecting positive momentum in both approved indications. In psoriasis Skyrizi is demonstrating impressive market share gains globally. Skyrizi now accounts for approximately 23% of the total prescription share in the US biologics market. Skyrizi's in-play psoriasis share which includes both new and switching patients also remains very, very strong and now reflects roughly 40% patient share in the US and a clear number one leadership position.

Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well internationally where we have now achieved approximately 10% psoriasis share across our top 12 markets as well as in-play share leadership in more than 20 key countries. While we were early in our launch in psoriatic arthritis we are encouraged by the uptake in this indication. In the dermatology segment Skyrizi has already achieved in-play patient share of more than 10% in the US. Internationally Skyrizi PsA is now approved in 45 countries with reimbursement expected to increase throughout the year.

Importantly, we are also preparing for the launch of Skyrizi in Crohn's disease, which represents another important long-term growth driver with approval decisions anticipated this year.

Turning now to Rinvoq, which delivered global sales of $465 million demonstrating continued strong growth. As anticipated, we have seen an impact in new patient starts following the label update and Rinvoq prescriptions have now stabilized in the US with in-play market share currently 12% in RA. We expect growth in the second-line plus RA setting going forward, where our field force is now focused on leveraging compelling data from two important Phase 3 trials. First, SELECT-CHOICE which demonstrated Rinvoq superiority versus ORENCIA across key efficacy parameters, including clinical remission in previously treated RA patient.

And second, the open label extension of SELECT-COMPARE, which demonstrated that many RA patients with an inadequate response to Humira are able to achieve remission after switching to Rinvoq. Early feedback suggests this updated Rinvoq RA messaging is resonating very well with healthcare practitioners. Internationally Rinvoq share continues to ramp in RA with a total market share of approximately 5.5% across key geographies.

We are also making excellent progress with Rinvoq's newly launched indications, including atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis. Managed care access is expected to ramp strongly for each of these indications over the coming months.

As we build access, initial prescriptions are covered by our Bridge program which provides free goods to patient and so formulary coverage is established. As a reminder, the volume from our Bridge program is not captured in third-party prescription data.

I'll start with atopic dermatitis. We are seeing new patient starts accelerating as we build access. When you include prescriptions from our Bridge program Rinvoq total in-play AD share is already in the mid-teens. So we are pleased with the early adoption in repeating prescribers. As an oral option that provides significant skin clearance and itch relief, we believe Rinvoq has a strong differentiated position in this highly under penetrated AD market.

In PsA we are seeing a nice uptake in Rinvoq's in-play share, especially in the Room segment where the severity of joint or skin manifestations of the disease can vary significantly by patient. And importantly, we have also launched Skyrizi in the room PsA segment this quarter, giving us two very compelling therapies to address the wide range of PsA patient types, regardless of how their symptoms present.

We have also launched our first indication in the IBD segment, Rinvoq for ulcerative colitis, where we are seeing a significant long-term opportunity in the second-line plus setting. Nearly 50% of UC patients are currently on or have used TNF therapy. So the addressable patient population is substantial. Given the strong benefit risk in this indication, we believe Rinvoq will be a welcome therapeutic option for UC patients and physicians.

Turning now to hematologic oncology, global revenues were more than $1.6 billion, down 0.6% on an operational basis. IMBRUVICA global revenues were approximately $1.2 billion, down 7.4%. There are two factors impacting our Imbruvica results. First, we are seeing greater market share erosion in new patient starts than originally anticipated from newer therapies, including other BTK inhibitors as well as our own Venclexta.

Second, we continue to see higher than expected COVID suppression on new patient starts in CLL, which as threat to progression therapy has impacted the total BTK treated patient market. Our guidance assumes a market recovery over the course of this year. But it's too early to determine exactly how this may play out, given the continued impact from recent COVID variants.

Despite these dynamics IMBRUVICA remains the market leading therapy for total patients across CLL and several other major blood cancers. Based on the magnitude of clinical data and real world evidence generated for Imbruvica, showing sustained disease control as well as overall patient survival, we are confident it will continue to be a meaningful product for AbbVie over the long term.

Venclexta however is helping to offset some of the headwinds facing Imbruvica. Global sales were $473 million, up 21.1% on an operational basis. In the US Venclexta is the clear market share leader in frontline AML among patients who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy and recently achieved leading new patient share in second-line plus CLL. We are also seeing robust momentum internationally with strong performance across all approved indications.

Additionally, we continue to make excellent progress building out our hem/onc portfolio with several compelling late stage assets, such as Epcoritamab for B-cell malignancies, Navitoclax for myelofibrosis and ABBV 383 for multiple myeloma expected to support sustainable long-term growth.

Turning now to neuroscience, where revenues were approximately $1.5 billion, up more than 20% on an operational basis. Including robust double-digit growth from Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic and Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy is performing very well and continues to be the market leading oral CGRP treatment for acute migraine with sequential demand growth observed.

Qulipta is also demonstrating exceptional uptake in migraine prevention with recent total prescriptions performing ahead of comparable branded launches. Qulipta is now capturing nearly 25% of the new to brand share in the US preventative CGRP class, when we consider both paid and Bridge volume. We expect commercial access to continue to ramp strongly over the remainder of the year.

Qulipta has also recently demonstrated positive results from a registration enabling study for the preventative treatment of chronic migraine which we plan to submit to the agency for potential expanded use in the US as well as to support regulatory applications across the international markets. This indication if approved will provide added differentiation for Qulipta as the only oral CGRP therapy for the preventative treatment of both episodic and chronic migraine.

In our other notable therapeutics eye care revenues of $771 million were down 2.8% on an operational basis. With recent generic competition for this spaces [ph] unfavorably impacting our result. Average sales were $380 million, down 4.6% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes remain depressed compared to pre-COVID levels.

So overall, I'm extremely pleased with our execution across the therapeutic portfolio, including the progress we're making with recent new product launches. We remain on track to deliver strong revenue growth once again in 2022. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tom for additional comments on our R&D progress. Tom?

Tom Hudson{BIO 15189431 <GO>}
Thank you, Jeff. I'll start with immunology. We recently received FDA approval for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis, a disease where there continues to be a significant unmet need for therapies that can provide high response rate and treatable [ph] remission. In our UC development program Rinvoq demonstrated some of the highest rates of remission and endoscopic improvement seen in Phase 3 studies. Importantly Rinvoq also provided durable responses sustained through one year of treatment.

Given the strong benefit risk profile we believe Rinvoq will be an important new medicine for patients. Our regulatory applications for RINVOQ in UC remain under review in Europe and Japan with approval decisions expected in the second half of this year. Also in the area of inflammatory bowel disease we recently reported positive top line results from the second Phase 3 induction study for Rinvoq in Crohn's disease. Similar to results for the first induction trial in this induction study RINVOQ demonstrated a very strong impact on the disease as measured by clinical remission and endoscopic response.

We expect to see results from the Phase 3 maintenance study later in the quarter with our regulatory submissions for Rinvoq in Crohn's disease expected in the third quarter, and approval decisions anticipated in 2023. Rounding out Rinvoq's development programs in rheumatology, we also have regulatory applications under review in ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial SpA. We expect an FDA approval decision in the second quarter for AF and decisions in the fourth quarter for non-radiographic axial SpA.

Moving to Skyrizi where in the quarter, we announced an update regarding our regulatory applications for Crohn's Disease in the US. Following an FDA request for additional information, primarily related to the on-body injection device used for maintenance dosing, we provided additional data for the device from an ongoing real life case study which showed that patients can safely and effectively use the on-body device to self-administer Skyrizi. After responding to the agency's request we received a three month extension of our Skyrizi submission in Crohn's Disease. We remain confident in the strong benefit risk profile for Skyrizi in Crohn's Disease and we now expect a decision in June.

Moving now to our oncology portfolio where we continue to make excellent progress across all stages of our hem and solid tumor pipeline. We recently announced positive top line results from the first expansion cohort of the Phase 2 study evaluating Epcoritamab in patients with aggressive B-cell lymphoma who have received at least two prior lines of therapy. Epcoritamab performed extremely well as a monotherapy in these heavily pre-treated and high-risk patients, demonstrating an overall response rate of 63% with a median duration of response of 12 month.

These results are particularly encouraging given that nearly 40% of patients had failed CAR T therapy. We plan to discuss these results with regulatory agencies about the potential to support submission for accelerated approval in the second half of this year.

We continue to make good progress with the indication expansion programs for Venclexta and we remain on track to see results from the Phase 3 CANOVA trial in relapsed-refractory and multiple myeloma patients with key 11;14 in the second half of this year. In our Venclexta MDS program, based on feedback from the FDA we have recently modified our regulatory strategy. And now intend to submit data from our ongoing Phase 3 program. Venclexta remains under Breakthrough Therapy designation for MDS and we continue to have a high degree of enthusiasm for Venclexta in this indication.

We expect data readouts from the Phase 3 study and our regulatory submissions for MDS in 2024.

In neuroscience, the FDA recently accepted our application for Vraylar, as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder. Based on the strong benefit risk profile demonstrated in our clinical program we believe Vraylar will be an important new therapy in this patient population and we look forward to bringing this new treatment option to patients suffering from major depressive disorder. In the area of migraine we recently reported positive top line results from a Phase 3 study evaluating Qulipta for the prevention of chronic migraine.

Qulipta performed very well in this study with both doses meeting the primary and all secondary endpoint demonstrating Qulipta's ability to significantly reduced migraine days for patients suffering from chronic migraine. This December we plan to submit our regulatory application to the FDA for Qulipta in chronic migraine and also plan to submit data from our Phase 3 studies in both chronic migraine and episodic migraine to support regulatory applications in markets outside the US.

In our cystic fibrosis program we recently completed an interim analysis of a Phase II proof-of-concept study evaluating our triple combination therapy. The results -- the efficacy results from this interim analysis did not meet our pre-specified criteria for advancing this triple therapy in development. The study was designed with a 28-day run in treatment period with a dual combination therapy, containing our C1 corrector and potentiator followed by a 28-day treatment period with the triple combination, which included the addition of our C2 corrector ABBV-119. This allowed us to independently assess the therapeutic potential of our C2 corrector.

The results show that the addition of 119 did not provide a meaningful improvement in FED 1 [ph] or reduction in fluoride concentration over our dual combination therapy. During the run in treatment period we were able to again assess the efficacy of our dual therapy which performed well providing efficacy consistent with the results for the existing dual combination therapy. So based on the performance of our dual therapy, we plan to continue our CF program

We have an additional C2 corrector ABBV-576 in Phase 1 studies that we plan to advance into a new triple therapy with our existing C1 corrector and potentiator. 576 is structurally distinct from our previous C2 corrector 119 and has a better PK profile and provides higher drug exposure which has the potential to deliver better efficacy. Our plan is to begin a Phase II study for this new triple combo by early next year.

And in Aesthetics, we recently began the Phase 3 program for our short-acting toxin, BoNTE Glabellar Lines. This novel toxin is designed to provide rapid onset of action and a short duration of effect which would lower the barrier for adoption for certain segment of consumers. We expect to see data from this program next year with regulatory applications also anticipated in 2023,

So in summary we've continued to make significant progress with our pipeline to start the year and we look forward to many more data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals throughout the remainder of 2022.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our first quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?

Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
Thank you, Tom. AbbVie's first quarter results demonstrate the strength of our broad portfolio, including double-digit growth from Skyrizi, Rinvoq, Venclexta, Neuroscience and Aesthetics. We also continue to deliver strong P&L performance with another quarter of robust operating margin expansion, while fully funding the business for long-term growth.

We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.16, reflecting growth of 9.3% compared to prior year and $0.04 above our guidance midpoint. This includes a $0.08 unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense that was not factored into our original guidance. Total net revenues were more than $13.5 billion, up 5.4% on an operational basis, excluding a 1.3% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.

Net revenues came in above our guidance despite the entry of generic competition for Restasis. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 51.4% of sales, an improvement of 150 basis points versus the prior year. This includes adjusted gross margin of 84.5% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 10.9% of sales, acquired IPR&D expense of 1.1% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense of 21.1% of sales. Net interest expense was $531 million and the adjusted tax rate was 12.1%.

Turning to our financial outlook, we are updating our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to include the $0.08 for acquired IPR&D expense that was incurred during the first quarter. As a result, we now expect full year adjusted earnings per share between $13.92 and $14.12. This earnings per share guidance does not include an estimate for acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred beyond the first quarter.

We now expect net revenues of approximately $59.4 billion. At current rates we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.4% unfavorable impact on full-year sales growth. This revenue guidance includes updated Restasis sales of approximately $400 million.

Moving to the P&L, we now expect adjusted gross margin of 84.5% of sales, adjusted SG&A expense of $12.5 billion and an adjusted operating margin ratio of 51.8% of sales.

Turning to the second quarter, we anticipate net revenues of approximately $14.6 billion. At current rates, we expect, foreign exchange to have 1.5% unfavorable impact on sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $3.38 and $3.42. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter.

In closing, we are off to an excellent start to the year with strong performance across multiple areas. We are making significant progress with new product launches and the pipeline, underscoring our confidence in AbbVie's long-term growth outlook.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Liz.

Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Rob. We will now open the call for questions. In the interest of hearing from as many analysts as possible over the remainder of the call, we ask that you please limit your questions to one or two. Operator, we'll take the first question please.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from Mohit Bansal from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

Q - Mohit Bansal{BIO 18070890 <GO>}
Great, thanks for taking my question. And maybe to begin with, on Imbruvica, so I mean the script trends are down and you mentioned that for new starts, you are losing some share to the competition. When you think -- can you please characterize how much share you are losing, and do you think it will stabilize over time? And when you look at Imbruvica and Venclexta combined, do you think the franchise can grow going forward from here? Thank you.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah, thank you for the question. So as I mentioned in my comments, we are seeing greater share erosion. Imbruvica continues to be the leading share in the later lines. Although we have lost our front line share position to Calquence. And obviously Venclexta is also moving there. So we see a couple of things that are taking place. So we have that share erosion that's putting some pressure on the brand, and then clearly we see the continued depression of the market. So it's kind of like a double hit.

If we think of our -- if we think of this over the short, mid and longer term, what I would say would be this. So in the short-term meaning this year we projected the share decline. And that includes some stabilization. But we still think the brand is under some pressure from other BTKs and Venclexta. And basically we have flat guidance this year and some of that includes a recovery of the market back to sort of more normal levels. And we'll have to see how that progresses over the year.

If I think more about the mid-term I think what's important context there is new patient starts essentially make up roughly 13% to 15% of Imbruvica. So it's got a very, very large installed base, about 85%, maybe a little bit more in terms of what that's going to happen. We're not seeing any changes in persistency or items like that. So we think that we have a very good sense of stability for the brand over time in terms of what this may mean. So that's basically how we think about it.

To answer your other question, if you look at the combined share, AbbVie has quite a strong position. We have roughly 33% of total share in the front line and we have between 42% and 46% of second line plus. So clearly Venclexta is able to offset, as I commented in my remarks some of those pressures. So it's very important for AbbVie, it's going to be a very big brand over the long term. In the short term here and mid-term the growth is going to be more challenged moving forward.

Q - Mohit Bansal{BIO 18070890 <GO>}
Thank you.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks Mohit. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Terence Flynn from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Q - Terence Flynn{BIO 15030404 <GO>}
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. I was just wondering, obviously you guys have been speaking with payers about the Humira positioning for 2023. Are you willing to give us any update in terms of how you're thinking about that guidance figure that you put out a couple of years ago? Any change in thinking there? And then are you able to disclose the CR rate for the recent Epcoritamab Phase II trial? Just wondering how that factors into the decision about whether to seek accelerated approval here. Thank you.

A - Richard A. Gonzalez{BIO 1973579 <GO>}
So Terence, this is Rick. I'll take the first question for you. And I'm probably going to answer a little broader because I think it is important. I understand the interest in trying to understand, how to model 2023. It's obviously important to us to model 2023 as accurately as possible. And I think if you step back, obviously contracting is one portion of a variable that will impact the speed at which biosimilars are able to adopt -- be adopted in the market. If you step back and look there's probably four key variables that will impact what that adoption rate looks like.

One of them is obviously what will Humira's access be post biosimilars entering the marketplace. And this is the period where you would normally be doing the contracting around that. I think we'll do well in being able to be co-position versus biosimilars and the vast majority of covered lives here in the United States. But that process isn't done and we aren't in a position to be able to ultimately give you any further update until we're a little further along in that process.

The second variable that will impact what 2023 looks like is how will the biosimilar price. We don't know that. Obviously, we have seen how they price in markets outside the US, but there is no market exactly like the US internationally. And so that's a variable. We're making some projections of what we believe that pricing will look like. But that's ultimately something we're going to have to see how it plays out.

I'd say the third variable is, how competitive will these biosimilars be. There's going to be by the summer of 2023, there's is going to be a lot of biosimilars in the US market. But they're not all the same. And how competitive, will they be against what is Humira today and what are the bulk of patients who used as it relates to Humira. And what I mean by that is interchangeability and number of other factors are going to play into the competitiveness of those biosimilars.

And I'd say the fourth variable, and in fact something that people think about that much, and that is the ability of a biosimilar to be able to supply the US market. There is no market like the United States for Humira anywhere around the world. United States is significantly larger than any other market around the world. There are certainly biosimilar players that are like an AbbVie and I would expect them to have manufacturing capacity. There are generic players. They could have sufficient manufacturing capacity. And then there are very small companies.

But I think anybody, any payer that's going to want to convert in any significant way to a biosimilar they are going to want confident that they can have a reliability of supply of that biosimilar and we've spent years building the network that we have for redundancy of every aspect of the manufacturing process on Humira. And we've never had a problem supplying the US market. So I think we can be viewed as kind of the gold standard. So those are the variables that are going to impact what this transition looks like.

The guidance we've given so far as this 45% plus or minus 10%. I think at this point that's still the best information that we can provide. Later this year I think some of these variables will be clearer to us. And we may be in a position to be able to provide some more information to investors, and we would do that. Some will not. Pricing will not be clear at that point. We're not going to know how they're going to price until we actually get into -- they actually get into the marketplace. So I think that's the way to think about these variables. Rob, anything you'd add.

A - Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
Yes. So this is Rob. I would just add that we've been trying to give investors some directional guidance on how to think about '23 beyond just the Humira 45% plus or minus 10%. We've talked about Aesthetics growing high single digits annually over the next decade. You can get a sense based on response today and way to think about Imbruvica.

In terms of operating margin I talked about pulling back to the 46% to 47% range, with no cuts in investment because we're going to return to growth very quickly, so we are going to continue to invest in this business. And as I look at Street consensus I see modeling of cuts in SG&A, not necessarily reflecting their corporate operating margin levels. It's something just to keep in mind. And then even we've talked about the tax rate growing at one point per year on average. Obviously you saw this year it only grew point, two points, other years it may go higher. So we've tried to give the Street some ideas of the way to think about '22 model in advance of our formal guidance.

A - Richard A. Gonzalez{BIO 1973579 <GO>}
Okay. Number two, Neil.

A - Neil Gallagher{BIO 18805592 <GO>}
Hi, this is Neil Gallagher. I'll take the question regarding Epcoritamab. So we recently reported data from the expansion cohort of relapsed refractory DLBCL patients. We reported an overall response rate of 63% with a median duration of response of 12 months. One thing that's really important to bear in mind is that this is a pretty refractory patient population with a median number of prior therapies of 3.5 and a range of 12;11 at the upper end. And importantly, just under 40% of these patients had failed prior therapy with the CAR-T. Overall the safety profile remains manageable with the vast majority of cases of CRS class effect with these agents being Grade 1 and 2.

To directly address your question, we are not yet ready to reveal additional details about the data. They will be revealed at a forthcoming medical meeting, and in fact, I was just in contact with the team yesterday, and I know that they are working very diligently to get those data on a podium in a meeting in the very near future.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you, Terence. Operator, we'll take the next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Tim Anderson from Wolfe Research. Your line is open.

Q - Alice Nettleton
Hello. Thanks for taking our questions. This is Alice Nettleton on for Tim Anderson. A question on Rinvoq. What does in-play market share in atopic derm eventually get in your view and are you seeing any switching away from Dupixent at all? Thank you.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for the question. I'll give you some context, I mentioned that we see roughly in the mid-teens now after about three months, which we're very pleased in. And some more flavor on that. If you think about the HCPs and the doctors that prescribe in the US now, you've got about 9,000. And those are the, dermatologists and some allergists. There is about 3,000 of those physicians that are the big prescribers. They're very productive. Those 3000 are the ones that are driving Skyrizi for example, or other big brands in psoriasis.

So we see after just about three months, we see almost 1,000 doctors that have prescribed Rinvoq and so that's driving that 15%. Some of it depends in terms of where the in-play share ends up, how many of the competitors come in. We're not really sure that Baricitinib will come into the market. We'll have to see. We haven't seen much Pfizer activity yet. To give you some sort of international perspective, in the Canadian market we're seeing, where there's really just Dupi and Rinvoq at this point, after a couple of quarters, we're seeing a 30% in-play share in Canada.

So we are, as I mentioned, very, very encouraged with the early adoption, in particular, my comment around how fast once you see the first prescription take place with some of those productive doctors, how fast they go to the second or third. To give you some flavor of what we see in the US, and again, the data is early. We see as expected, the majority of our use, so far in that dynamic market are not switches necessarily. We see about, let's say, a third, believe it or not, that are not even exposed to Dupi. And the doctors are saying, look, I've already given another oral systemic, for example, but the itch in the skin is so severe that they're going to go -- I'm going to go right and get the relief with Rinvoq.

And then maybe the other two-thirds you see Dupi partial responders, particularly related to the itch isn't suppressed as much and they still have some skin involvement, or there is, as we've highlighted before a warehouse of Dupi non-responders that has been built up over the last four years. So that's the behavior that we see. Again, I'm very encouraged on the early results, not just in the US, but around the world. Rinvoq is going to be a real player in this underserved market.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thank you Alice. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Steve Scala from Cowen. Your line is open.

Q - Steve Scala{BIO 1505201 <GO>}
Thank you. Two questions. First on Epcoritamab, the data looks great. Could this molecule immediately start taking share from CAR T or do you think physicians will want to see durability data before selecting a bio-specific ahead of a cell therapy? So that's the first question. The second question is, I'm trying to sift through the answer to the Humira question, just a moment ago. On the one hand, it seems we need to consider that Humira could be more resilient in 2023, than expected. On the other hand, the Street needs to raise spending assumptions. So would you object to either of those conclusions based on what was stated? Thank you.

A - Neil Gallagher{BIO 18805592 <GO>}
Thanks, Steve, this is Neil. I'll take the first question on that Epcoritamab. The fact that we saw such remarkable activity in a patient population that had failed CAR T does not imply that the medicine should be positioned after failure of CAR T. I think there are two very different classes of medicines. As you know, CAR T has significant challenges with respect to the need for (inaudible) prior to administration.

The safety profile with Epcoritamab is extremely manageable and again I don't want to repeat what I said earlier on around CRS but overall we see a very strong benefit risk profile emerging for the medicines. And therefore, our intention is to move the medicine into earlier lines of therapy, initially gain an approval with respect to -- gain approval in refractory DLBCL and after that move the medicine into earlier lines of therapy.

A - Richard A. Gonzalez{BIO 1973579 <GO>}
Hey, Steve, this is Rick. I think Rob and I'll handle the second question for you. Yeah, look, I think it's a great question and we've gotten that question a lot. What's the -- where are you going to be in '23 and is it going to be lighter in '23 and therefore spill more into '24? And I think that's a reasonable question to start to think through. I'd say, as I step back and look at it, I would tell you this. Look at the end of the day, it could be lighter in '23. That would force more of it out into '24.

If I look at the business, that's a good thing and we get this higher cash flows in '23 than what we would be projecting now. Ultimately, I think there will be a settling out between '23 and '24. We'll will still get to the levels that we have described or at least that we're modeling. And I think the important thing is look Humira is going to play out over these two year period of time.

What's important to AbbVie though is, what's that underlying growth that's driving the business and is going to sustain the growth on the other side of the LOE. That's the critical aspect of it. The Skyrizis, the Rinvoqs, our neuroscience pipeline, Aesthetics, it's all of those major growth drivers that we have, because that growth is going to be suppressed in '23 and somewhat maybe in '24. But as soon as that pressure is off, that's when we re-emerge and be able to deliver growth on the other side of it.

And so what we're focused on is, obviously we're going to try to manage '23, '24 dynamic to the extent that we're able to, but that's not the most critical part for the business. The most critical part is driving these growth brands and delivering on the pipeline.

A - Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
This is Rob. What I would add, Steve, just to clarify, I mean we have a business that can deliver high single-digit growth during 2025. It doesn't make sense to be cutting investment in '23. And that's what the Street consensus is modeling currently. So we expect to invest in this business, invest in R&D, invest in SG&A to drive that long-term growth and given how quickly we will return to that growth I wouldn't expect us to be cutting investment in '23.

Q - Steve Scala{BIO 1505201 <GO>}
Thank you.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Steve. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi. Your line is open.

Q - Andrew Baum{BIO 1540495 <GO>}
Thank you. A question for Jeff. Perhaps you could comment on the impact of IL-31 for atopic dermatitis, where looks like additional data, which obviously don't have the JAK labeling associated with them, how you think it will impact the market in terms of delaying the onset of JAK therapy? And then second for Neil, could you talk to how large will be the commercial potential for Venclexta in 11;14-myeloma which is due to report its Phase 3 this year. Many thanks.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. So important questions. So the way that we see the market for the other, the other ILs, I do think that there will be a segment of conservative dermatologists that will attempt to sequence, and I think that largely that they will be disappointed, because it seems the newer agents, are very, very difficult to distinguish from Dupixent. I think certainly there could be market access dynamics that start to appear with subsequent ILs. I think that's something that we will watch and you would want to watch.

I think what's again maybe not appreciated as we watch the early quarters of performance in Europe and the first quarter of performance here in the US is that there is significant amount of early adopters and dermatologists that will go right to a JAK inhibitor. As I mentioned, they're not always sequencing through Dupi. And it's because the severity of some of these patients, and the level of the clinical involvement is very, very significant. And so we do see what you would call significant amount of naive use based on the profile of the JAK inhibitor.

Now these are early adopters, these are people that have already contemplated the risk benefit. And I think that's important. And so the way that we see the market developing is that when physicians would start with Dupi which will be in a significant proportion of patients. It's not clear at all that, the next step will be another IL that has been approved or will be approved.

In fact, we think it's more likely that they will move towards the best JAK that can get to these high levels of skin clearance. You know the easy 90 plus almost no perceived itch. And I think that's the endpoint that this market is going to move towards and Rinvoq is the drug that clearly can deliver on that promise. And so that's how we see the market developing and that's why we remain encouraged on the early results around the world from what we're seeing with the agent.

A - Neil Gallagher{BIO 18805592 <GO>}
This is Neil. With respect to the question on venetoclax, CANOVA. So the CANOVA study is a study of venetoclax in multiple myeloma patients with a particular translocations 11;14. We're making extremely good progress with this study and we fully anticipate having Phase 3 data from the study during the course of 2022. We know from this particular patient population that were included in earlier studies with Venclexta [ph], they are exquisitely sensitive to treatment with the medicine in various combinations.

The prevalence of this population, around 20% of multiple myeloma and multiple myeloma, as you know is a (inaudible) malignancies. So this is a very significant proportion of the multiple myeloma population that could gain benefit from Venclexta. As mentioned, we're looking forward to being able to communicate the Phase III data during the course of 2022. Thanks for the question.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thank you, Andrew. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Schott from JP Morgan. Your line is open.

Q - Chris Schott{BIO 6299911 <GO>}
Great, thanks very much for the questions. First one from me is just can you elaborate a bit more on Rinvoq coverage both in AD, and UC. I guess trying to get a sense of where we are today and what's the outlook for the next few quarters? And maybe as part of that, it seems like you're seeing some nice uptake in your Bridge programs.

Can you just comment when you expect we should start to think about those translating over to third party Rxs and that will be maybe more visible to at the outside world in terms of how that uptake you're seeing.

And then my second question was just on Q1 itself. Were there any notable, either payer adjustments or gross to net issues, I guess with Humira for example, it seems like the low-single digit growth was a departure from recent trends. I'm trying to sense a little bit better what happened in the quarter, is there anything we should just be kind of keeping in mind as we consider the Q1 results. Thanks.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah. Thank you, Chris, it's Jeff. So with your first question is, we're very confident that we are going to get to high levels of paid access for Rinvoq and Skyrizi's new indications. So typically what we'll see based on the approval timeline we will be ramping by the middle of the year up into the -- up in the high 90s in terms of our access for commercial access. So I think that everyone should be confident that that's where you're going to start to see this Bridge program start to fully convert as the months go by into the paid prescriptions.

So typically, that's the timing we're looking at. You're going to see very strong momentum on paid access towards the end of next quarter is what we've guided towards. So that's the answer to your first question. I think if you think about -- and maybe just to frame the Humira question, the Humira fundamentals are -- and the market fundamentals are quite strong. You see the markets are performing nicely. Our market share growth trends, we haven't seen any trend shift. They've been largely stable. There is some sequential decline based on the size of the market and actually our own brand Skyrizi and Rinvoq that are playing very strongly into these markets.

What I would say is that in some cases Q1 can be quite unique over the years. You've got the issue with the plans resetting their deductibles, you've got issues with doctors that have to put in another prior authorization for the year. And so you do see some copay and sort of deductible dynamic. But we think that's really a first quarter type of event. And it's largely been very consistent with what we expected. So maybe I don't know, Rob. If you want to build on that a little bit.

A - Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
Yes I would just add that, if you look back to our guidance for the quarter, and we gave guidance at the therapeutic area level, we pretty much came in line with that guidance. And so we expected this dynamic and we're also -- we're not changing our full year outlook for US Humira 8% growth. And that again will be driven by market driving volume growth. And so, it's in line with our expectations. I understand Street consensus had a different point of view, but we weren't surprised by that.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Chris. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Shibutani from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Q - Chris Shibutani{BIO 3202082 <GO>}
Thank you. Good morning. If I could ask on Vraylar, the product, I think you commented expectations for MDD approval, and yet still frame it as potential for upside. Can you help us understand, perhaps some of the potential there just thinking back to some of the scale of the peak sales opportunity that, that drug was characterized previously? MDD certainly seems as if it's a potential significant opportunity. Thanks.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah, thank you for the question and it is a significant opportunity. So as we highlighted, and Tom highlighted, the NDA has been accepted and we're confident in the approval. I think what we said in the past is that just with the base indication, so before we get that approval. I mean, the FDA has to still approve it towards the end of the year, we believe that we can ramp towards a $4 billion opportunity. So that would mean our share just in the base indications of a unique profile with the mania, the mix mania and depression and the bipolar depression we move somewhere up sort of doubling our share penetration.

So right now we're in about 2.7% TRx share. So we would really get close to doubling that based on the momentum and then MDD would build on top of that. And so it's significant. I mean the physicians that we've talked to you when we show them the profile are very pleased. First, they know Vraylar, they like Vraylar. They like the strong efficacy. They highlight non-sedating, they highlight at least verbally a brightening effect of the agent, minimal weight gain metabolic effects.

So as they think about that, how that would translate to adjunctive MDD, they like that profile. The other piece that we hear is they like the starting dose, they like that starting dose of the 1.5 milligram dose, which is what we believe that ultimately will be approved. We'll have to see. So easy to start, easy to take, well tolerated. And so to your point, we believe that MDD will offer some upside and acceleration to the brand's momentum when we achieve it.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Chris. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Vamil Divan from Mizuho Securities. Your line is open.

Q - Vamil Divan{BIO 15748296 <GO>}
Hi, great. Thanks for taking my question. Let's make it back to some where we were just talking about around the pricing in 1Q. I had a couple of questions regarding the migraine franchise. So the Ubrelvy scripts from what we can see publicly out your third-party data it looks like the gross to net, so net-net pricing is back to where we were in 1Q '21. I'm just trying to understand is this just the seasonality of things or 4Q to 1Q dynamic or maybe there might be something broader where net pricing for these products is going down?

And then tied to that what you look to, as you mentioned, let's say, the prescription numbers are pretty good, as it builds up. I'm curious, now we have sort of two product in the market. Does that impact how you're thinking about the opportunity, especially from a pricing side or sort of payer negotiation side? Any thoughts on sort of bundling to the other, in any way so to get even better access than what you have right now. So any thoughts you could share there would be helpful as well. Thank you.

A - Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
So Vamil, this is Rob, I'll take your first question. So when you look at that -- yeah, there is seasonality in this market in the US and so you do see a shift from Q4 to Q1. If you look at year-over-year, you'd see that in Q4, as you mentioned, Q1 year-over-year is relatively flat. I would think about it that way for the full year as well. So you do tend to see a suppression in Q1 because of your plans resetting setting that dynamic we see in the US market. But then, over the course of the rest of year you do see higher pricing. So on average, the way you think about it is price is relatively stable.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Vamil, it's Jeff now. So look we are pleased with the Ubrelvy momentum. I mean actually since we launched Qulipta, Ubrelvy has accelerated. So we have to -- because we can see the competitor, because you can see the whole thing, but when we factor Nurtec [ph] by 8 versus 16 and we try to understand the acute dynamic, we can see that we're clearly the market leading acute CGRP and that's nice to see. The physicians really like Ubrelvy, the markets are robust. I think what you're seeing is what Rob highlighted in terms of the overall performance.

I didn't really fully appreciate your second question in terms of the access. I can give you a broad overview. Obviously where we're seeing great momentum with the brand, much of the brand is still because the access is ramping is still rich, just like we discussed there with the immunology agents. So we think again by the middle of the year, we're going to see commercial access really start to ramp and you'll see the conversion start to take place. What's nice is that we're confident in that. We think that our price points and net price or negotiations are going well and because of its unique profile as an agent, basically the strength of the drug is really significant in terms of its performance against episodic migraine.

We feel like we're in good shape, and we're going to build on top of that, basically 25% in-play share which is right now at the top of the league table. So that's how we see it. We're confident in the access ramp.

Q - Vamil Divan{BIO 15748296 <GO>}
Maybe just to clarify, the second question and just thank you for all that. Is there any advantages or other strategy you might have now because you have two approved migraine oral therapies or is it pretty much similar what it would be on one or the other?

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah, it's pretty similar based on the way that the pricing in the different dynamics work on the other CGRP. It's just sort of a straight play on the access there.

Q - Vamil Divan{BIO 15748296 <GO>}
Okay, thank you so much.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thank you Vamil. Thanks Vamil. Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Geoff Meacham from Bank of America. Your line is open.

Q - Geoff Meacham{BIO 21252662 <GO>}
Hey guys, good morning. Thanks for the question. I just had another one on the I&I landscape, Rick, when you look at the market disruption that you'll see in '23 and '24 presumably, that's going to have an indirect effect on Skyrizi and Rinvoq, when you think pricing and share. What do you guys view as a win over this period from a new start or switch perspective or growth perspective is the first question in that? The second part of it is what gives you guys confidence in the market really normalizing after 2024 period? Thank you.

A - Richard A. Gonzalez{BIO 1973579 <GO>}
I think as we look at our long-range plan we don't see, or anticipate a dramatic impact. We provided that 2025 guidance, and I think it's reflective of significant growth of Skyrizi and Rinvoq. If you look at those assets and you look at their clinical performance, they really stand out and that's what's driving the kind of volume growth that we're seeing. And I think you will see obvious price disruption in the Humira market from biosimilars, but I don't anticipate that you can see that bleed over in a significant way to those other assets. Jeff, do you see anything differently?

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah, I don't see Geoff, much difference. I mean if you think of it in some ways, even on let's take Rinvoq for example. I mean you could say, wow in prior viewpoints may be everyone will step behind step behind a biosimilar at some point in the future. Well, one, we didn't think that, that would happen wide scale as the market develops so anyway. But even if it did our label is already behind TNF. And so when you look at the level of efficacy that Rinvoq is bringing in those later lines, I mean it's -- we're really quite insulated from that, I would put forth.

And second, Skyrizi is just is a phenomenal asset. The level of performance and what it's doing to transform, certainly psoriasis today, PsA right now and what we think will happen with Crohn's and ultimately IBD, when you look at the level of healing and sort of restating that standard of care, we think the assets themselves are quite well positioned for the middle part of the decade. And that sort of goes to the elements of the planning that Rick talked about.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Jeff. Operator. Next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Gary Nachman from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Gary Nachman{BIO 6990184 <GO>}
Hi, thanks. First just following on that last response, just can you talk more broadly about how you see the expansion, Rinvoq and Skyrizi into the IBD indications. So how is the initial launch for Rinvoq in ulcerative colitis going? I know it's early days, but what's the outlook there given physician receptivity around the product? Are physician saying they're excited to have Rinvoq for Crohn's as well? And also, how do you see Skyrizi fitting in with Crohn's versus Rinvoq?

And then secondly on the Aesthetics, it was strong in the first quarter, but did you see any impact in the early part of 1Q from Omicron and what have the trends been more recently in March and April in the Aesthetics business?

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Yeah. Thank you for the question. It's Jeff again. So we are very, very encouraged by the IBD momentum that we can build and we're right on the cusp of it. And to give some sense, basically this market, the market of Crohn's and you see that it actually has fairly high biologic penetration. When we do our research and our engagement with the physicians what they typically have done for more than a decade, since the distance the availability of Remicade and then Humira, they really hang on, as much as possible to their first-line use. They try to intensify, they do all sorts of things because it's quite scary for the physicians and the patients because no one set a different standard of care.

So when you start to look at the healing rates that we start to see with Rinvoq and you see, the healing of the bowel, the remission rate the combination what we can see, this market looks very, very good to have both of those assets come in with higher standards of care. So we're very, very encouraged and we think that the IBD market is probably under-appreciated in terms of what that looks like. And the patients are so challenged with their disease because it's quite severe with the bowel preparation, the hospitalizations, all of these things.

Having two assets is a great thing to bring to the market. Certainly in the US, it's likely we see that with UC today that you're going to have later line use based on the labeling. Skyrizi is not going to have that limitation. So you can imagine that you have an ability to co-position, to sequence appropriately to think about how you bring that whole portfolio around the world. And that's how we see it. We're quite encouraged that we would have both, Rinvoq for Crohn's and Rinvoq for Skyrizi in the market, and it's kind of very similar to my comments I made on what's happening with PSE today in rheumatology where both of those assets, Rinvoq for PsA and Skyrizi PsA are in the market together working as a portfolio.

To get to your first point, it's been only a month or so with our UC launch, but the physicians -- gastros are very encouraged with the profile. They've not seen the level of remission or the level of healing before in any asset. So there's quite a wow reaction to the efficacy profile. They realize that they have to think about -- I've got to think through my patients that are not doing well on TNF, or have cycled through a TNF and are struggling. And I mentioned that's a pretty large addressable population. It's at least 50% of the market today.

So early qualitative results are quite strong and the Bridge results are also quite strong. So we're pleased with the gastro launches thus far. Carrie.

A - Carrie Strom{BIO 20606775 <GO>}
Hi, Gary. This is Carrie Strom, President of Global Allergan Aesthetics. And I'll take your question about the Aesthetics market. And in Q1, we did see US Tox and Filler markets both growing in the mid-20% and we expect that sort of growth to continue for the rest of 2022. And the way to think about it is similar amount of absolute volume growth as '21, but of course, off of a larger base.

And in terms of what's driving that market growth, we're seeing very strong demand trends supported by our increased commercial investments, for example increased consumer activation, for acquisition and retention, field force expansions in key markets. And we see these trends also supported just by fundamentals in the Aesthetics that will continue in the long term. People think about Aesthetics more like health and wellness. It's been much more destigmatized and we see factors like social media and word of mouth continuing to drive Aesthetics in the future.

On your question around the pandemic, I would say that we are seeing an impact right now in China, and we anticipate that this recent surge of COVID cases in China, which has resulted in lockdowns across several major cities, has reduced patient traffic into Aesthetic offices in China. And China is a top market for Aesthetics. So we expect this to impact our near-term international performance for both toxins and fillers.

I should also mention that Russia is a key market for fillers globally, and as the tragic events in the Ukraine have unfolded we have suspended operations for our Aesthetics business in Russia. So although absolute aesthetic sales in Russia are modest, like I said Russia is among one of the largest filler markets in the world. So we expect to see an impact on our filler performance in coming quarters. But despite these dynamics, we do not need to change our total guidance for Aesthetics. We see our continued robust toxin performance in the US to offset this anticipated transitory impact in both China and Russia.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Carrie.

Q - Gary Nachman{BIO 6990184 <GO>}
Great. Thank you.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Operator, next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Robyn Karnauskas from Truist Securities. Your line is open.

Q - Robyn Karnauskas{BIO 15238701 <GO>}
Great, thanks for taking my question. So first Epcoritamab. I just have a question on Epcor approval given the recent FDA discussion around the PI3 kinase class and sort of hinting that they want control data for accelerated approval. How do you view that in light of that panel, the likelihood of accelerated approval?

And then secondly just a bit more questions around the Bridge program. I think you said that you're going to expect more payment reimbursement coming online over the year. Just talk me how long people stay in the Bridge program and how you expect that Bridge program to continue and what's -- and how many people might continue to use it after payers come online. Thanks.

A - Neil Gallagher{BIO 18805592 <GO>}
Hey, Robyn, it's Neil. I'll start off with the question around Epcoritamab. But maybe just a comment, a general comment on accelerated approval overall. I think as we're all aware, it prompted your question that the agencies in the course of -- in the process of updating its guidance with respect to accelerated approval. We haven't seen the totality of that guidance, but we anticipate hearing more from them during the course of 2022.

As I alluded to, and I'm not going to repeat what I said earlier on about the Epco data, but we are extremely pleased with how the molecule is performing and it is our intent to engage with the agency based on the data that we've toplined recently. It is our intent to engage with the agency in a conversation to explore path to accelerated approval and likewise with some of our other programs. We recently got a BTD designation for Teliso-V, for example, earlier this year with a 54% response rate in cMet high non-small cell lung cancer.

Again it is our intent when we have data that are this strong to continue to engage with the agency on those programs to explore potential path to accelerated approval. Thanks for the question.

A - Jeffrey R. Stewart{BIO 19485431 <GO>}
Okay. Hi, it's Jeff. Just to comment on your Bridge question. Thank you for that. So the Bridge transition will be very efficient. So what I mean by that is because of the connections that we have with the payers in our specialty pharmacy network, we're able to, once access is achieved, rapidly and appropriately transition patients from the Bridge to basically their paid pharmacy in their prescription.

So there is not going to be lingering Bridge effects particularly in the immunology space. So once it starts to move and that access ramps the Bridge transition is quite fast. That can be within weeks or a month, and we know that that's the case, because we have the models from our earlier launches from Skyrizi and Rinvoq. So ultimately once you start to achieve those high levels of access, bridge programs drop very, very fast in the vast majority of -- the very vast majority is paid prescriptions. So it's very efficient and I hope that helps.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Thanks, Robyn. Operator, we have time for one final question.

Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from Josh Schimmer from Evercore ISI. Your line is open.

Q - Josh Schimmer{BIO 6783077 <GO>}
Great, thanks for fitting me in and congrats to both Mike and Tom. For Skyrizi, did your long-term outlook improve again or am I misunderstanding the contingent consideration line item? Thanks so much.

A - Robert A. Michael{BIO 19541407 <GO>}
So Josh, it's Rob. So if you look at the contingent consideration, actually it's a fair value liability, went down this quarter because of discount rate. So we always have to potential discount rate movement. So we saw the average discount rate increase by about 130 basis points. You're seeing obviously as rising interest rates are taking hold in the market that's something we have to take into account, because we had to mark this to market every quarter. If you look at our release, we had a similar -- we had a decrease last year as well.

Again we had discount rate increase in Q1 of last year, albeit to a lesser extent. So that's what you're seeing is just really the discount rate movement no other real fundamental changes to the valuation of that liability.

Q - Josh Schimmer{BIO 6783077 <GO>}
Got it. Thanks for clarifying.

A - Liz Shea{BIO 15134332 <GO>}
Well, thank you, Josh. That concludes today's conference call. If you'd like to listen to a replay of the call, please visit our website at investors.abbvie.com. Thanks again for joining us.

Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.