Q1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
David I. Goulden
David Goulden
3/2018-3/2024 | Booking Holdings Inc, EXEC VP/CFO
9/2016-1/2018 | Dell Technologies Inc, PRES:INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS GROUP
10/2014-9/2016 | EMC Corp, CEO:EMC INFO INFRASTRUCTURE
, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President
Glenn D. Fogel, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer of Booking.com, Director
Other Participants
Alex Wang, Morgan Stanley
Analyst
Chris Kuntarich, Deutsche Bank
Deepak Mathivanan, Wolfe Research
Justin Post, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Kevin Kopelman, Cowen
Mario Lu, Barclays
Mark Mahaney, Evercore
Presentation
Operator
Welcome to Booking Holdings' First Quarter 2021 Conference Call. Booking Holdings would like to remind everyone that this call may contain forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not guaranteed or future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.

Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals or expectations, and similar expressions, reflecting something other than historical facts are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

For a list of factors that could cause Booking Holdings' actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to the safe harbor statements at the end of Booking Holdings earnings press release as well as Booking Holdings most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Unless required by law, Booking Holdings undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. However, as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. A copy of Booking Holdings earnings press release together with an accompanying financial and statistical supplement is available in the for Investors section of Booking Holdings website www.bookingholdings.com.

And now I'd like to introduce Booking Holding speaker for this afternoon, Glenn Fogel and David Goulden. Go ahead, gentlemen.

Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Thank you and welcome to Booking Holdings first quarter conference call. I'm joined this afternoon by our CFO, David Goulden. I am pleased to start by reporting further improvement in our accommodations business with first quarter room nights declining 54% versus Q1 2019, which was 6 percentage points better than our fourth quarter 2020 decline. This improvement was driven by solid signs of increasing travel demand in certain countries and by our team's strong execution. David will provide the details on our first quarter results in his remarks.

As we have said before, we believe that the rate of recovery for travel will depend heavily on the rate and severity of new COVID-19 cases, the timing of effective and broad-based vaccine distribution and hopefully even more effective treatments in the future.

While pace of vaccine distribution remains frustratingly slow in most places around the world, Israel, the UK and the U.S. are benefiting from successful vaccine distribution programs. In each of these countries, we have seen an encouraging booking trends.

We support our view that vaccine distribution is a key to unlocking pent-up travel demand. In our own survey work earlier in the year, we found it over 70% of American said that the early distribution stage of COVID-19 vaccines made them feel more hopeful and optimistic about traveling in 2021.

As countries ramp up vaccine distribution, which we are now starting to see in more European countries, we believe that we will start to see booking strength expand to more parts of the world. While there are encouraging signs of recovery in some countries right now, the current situation in other countries, such as India, where we are, seeing staggering increases in COVID-19 cases and an enormous human tragedy happening, reminds us that recovery is not underway everywhere, and unfortunately in some countries, the situation is getting worse.

Last week, the World Health Organization warned that the pace of the pandemic is accelerating, we are mindful that governments may continue to take actions such as general area lockdowns or reintroducing travel restrictions including barring people from high infection locations from entering the country.

Any of these actions can have an impact on our performance. And it's difficult to predict when and to what extent such actions may be taken in the future. Furthermore, international travel must recover for there to be a complete global travel recovery.

In many governments, may be cautious in fully opening international travel for some time. Focusing on the U.S. where the vaccination program is going well, I am very pleased with our first quarter results in the U.S. and the strong rebound in U.S. travel demand.

For Q1 in the U.S., we had positive room night growth versus Q1 2019, and it was our strongest performing major country. These results were driven by domestic bookings as our international business is still very slow. We're pleased to see improvements in our U.S. room night trends each month in Q1, and these improvements continued into April.

The strength in the market benefited all of our travel products can help drive the highest number of air tickets ever booked in a single quarter for our company, and we knew that both and Booking.com had good U.S. results during the first quarter. In this improving environment, we can do to press ahead with one of our most important strategic strategies, strengthening the booking.com brand in the U.S..

You may have seen booking.com U.S. back to travel promotional campaign that we launched in April, which offered a $50 post-date promotional travel credit for U.S. travelers who activated the promotion in the booking.com app and book travel by the end of May.

This is just one example, the marketing message that we will be employing to increase awareness of the booking.com brand in the U.S.. And in this case, drive further consumer engagement with our apps. We also remain focused on expanding the supply of booking.com alternative accommodation offering in the U.S.. And we targeted inside new properties to the platform in the quarter.

However, we recognize, there's more work to be done to improve approve the breadth of this product in the U.S..

During the first quarter, we continue to execute against other key strategic priorities, such as expanding booking.com's payment platform and building that Connected Trip vision. Regarding our integrated payment platform at booking.com, we've made recent progress primarily to increase adoption by our supply partners in the U.S..

As I have mentioned previously, this platform provides payment options favored by both travelers and our supplier partners across hotels, alternative accommodations, cars, flight and attractions and is foundational for enabling our Connected Trip strategy.

The Connected Trip is our vision of a multi-parted offering including a combinations, flight, ground transportation, attractions, and dining connected by our payment network and ultimately supported by personalized intelligence to provide a frictionless seamless experience for our bookers all the way from first thinking about the initial booking to experiencing their trip to arriving back home.

Building out our full Connected Trip vision will be a multi-year endeavor. However, we expect that our business will benefit from the steps we are taking to achieve this vision long before we change the ultimate end state. For example, developing a robust flight park at Booking.com gives us the ability to engage with flight bookers early in their travel journey, and allows us an opportunity to cross out our accommodation and other services to these bookers.

We have not had these opportunities historically Booking.com given its accommodation only focus in the past. As we think about the journey for building their Connected Trip, this year will be focused on enabling travelers to book the major elements of their trip one place on booking.com. This means we will be working to build up our economic combination products like flights, ground transportation and attractions by increasing supply, as well as exposing more of our customers to these products.

And booking.com site offering we are now live in 18 countries with the most recent launch in the UK. We can now expose a large segment of customers to flight as these 18 countries collectively represented more than half of booking.com room nights booked in 2019.

Booking.com swipe offering is now fully native in the app and while early we are in the process of beginning to utilize marketing channels to bring potential customers to the product. On attractions, we've continued to expand the breadth of supply available to our travelers to our recent partnership with Viator along with our ongoing partnership with Musement that was announced last year.

We see real benefits of a strong attractions offering, given the potential bundling opportunities as well as the ability to increase traveler engagement with the app while travelers are in destination. Of course, many of our key strategic priorities, I mentioned the app which indicates the importance of the app for our business.

We've been investing the app platform for some time and will continue to invest as the app becomes the center of our Connected Trip experience. In addition, we see better customer loyalty, lower customer acquisition costs and more opportunities to engage directly with travelers through our app.

Booking.com was the most downloaded travel app globally in the first quarter according to a leading third-party research firm. We now see over two-thirds of our of our bookings come through the mobile devices. The majority of which are on the app.

One of Booking Holding's goals is to do well in the area of sustainability. I was very pleased to recently make public our 2020 sustainability report. In one achievement that I am particularly proud of is Booking Holdings becoming operationally carbon-neutral in 2020. This is a significant milestone for our business. And one we are working towards even prior to the pandemic. We intend to remain carbon-neutral in our operations in the future and look forward to making progress on our sustainability strategy, including diversity and inclusion and sustainable travel.

In conclusion, the exact sheet and time of the full recovery for travel remains uncertain. However, I'm encouraged by the signs of recovery we are seeing in some countries and then confident that we will eventually see a strong recovery in travel demand globally. That being said, we are likely to experience volatility between now and then with some countries recovering well, others beginning to recover. And unfortunately, some getting worse.

I'm proud of the actions that our teams across Booking Holdings continue to take to strengthen our company's position and execute against our strategic priorities. We are thinking about our business beyond just getting back to 2019 levels demand. We are focused on building a larger and faster growing business that generates more earnings after the recovery and for the long run.

I will now turn the call over to our CFO, David Goulden.

David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Thank you, Glenn and good afternoon. I'll review our offering results for the first quarter and provide some color on the trends we've seen so far in the second quarter. To avoid the comparison to the initial spread of the pandemic in 2020, all growth rates are relative to the comparable period in 2019 unless otherwise indicated.

Information regarding reconciliation of non-GAAP results to GAAP results can be found in our earnings release. I also want to remind you that during the period of bookings are recurring, revenue will recover more slowly than bookings use timing differences, and this will impact our booking to revenue take rates.

Now onto our results for the first quarter. On our February earnings call, we discussed the improvements in trends we saw starting middle of January and continuing into February driven by domestic travel in most parts of the world. The improved in trends continue into March, resulting in our Q1 reported room rights declining 54% versus Q1 2019, which was a 6% improvement versus decline we reported in Q4.

As a reminder, reported room nights include the impact of cancellations. The improvements in the Q1 room night decline rate versus Q4 is driven by the U.S. and Europe, while Asia and rest of world declines were about the same in Q1 as they were in Q4.

The U.S. was a strongest performing major country in Q1, and have a positive room night growth versus 2019 for the full quarter. The trends in the U.S. improved through Q1 with very strong room night growth versus 2019 for the month of March. Spring break was a contributor to growth in March. U.S. domestic room night growth was positive for each month, month-over-quarter with very strong growth for the full quarter.

In Q1 other countries also experienced very strong domestic room night growth including Russia and Australia and we saw will continuous strengthening in domestic bookings in Israel. While Europe improved for the full quarter compared with Q4, we did see trends soften towards the end of March driven by rising COVID case counts and new imposition on travel restrictions. Europe was the least recovered region in terms of room nights booked in Q4 and it remained the least recovered region in Q1.

Mobile bookings particular through our apps continue to represent over two-thirds of our total room nights. Our direct channel gain share both sequentially and year-on-year. Domestic room nights represented about 85% of all reported room nights in Q1 in line with our Q4, 2020 mix of room nights and up significantly versus 2019.

Our cancellation rates continues to be elevated versus 2019 in the quarter, but improve from levels we saw in Q4. The booking window of Booking.com remain shorter than it was in the first quarter 2019 as we continue to see a higher mix of near-term bookings.

However, the booking window contracted less than it did in the fourth quarter. As we noted on last call in January and February, we saw an expansion of the booking window versus 2019 in Western Europe, and this expansion continued into March as the share of further out bookings including those are somewhat travel increased versus the same time in 2019.

Due to the situation in Europe with new COVID cases, vaccination rates and travel restrictions, bookings are generally either very near term or for the summer period. The overall mix of customers booking alternative accommodations on Booking.com in Q1 was about the same in -- as Q1 last year.

As we noted last quarter, Europe is where we have our highest mix of alternative accommodations. And Europe was a slowest growing region in the first quarter which negatively impacted our alternative accommodation mix on a global basis. The mix of alternative accommodation bookings in Europe, increased by several percentage points year-over-year.

Gross bookings declined 53% in Q1, which is less than the decline in reported room nights primarily due to strong performance in our flights business and partially offset by a 1% decline in average daily rates for accommodations versus 2019.

Airline Tickets booked in the first quarter were up 49% versus 2019 driven by strong growth at price line and by flight bookings at booking.com and Agoda both of which did not have flight processing Q1, 2019. Our accommodations average day rates only declined 1% versus 2019, benefiting from a higher mix of North America which is a higher ADR region. Excluding regional mix effects, ADRs were down approximately mid-single digits. ADRs in the quarter were helped by the higher mix of summer bookings in Western Europe which typically have higher ADRs.

Consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $1.1 billion and decreased 61% versus 2019. Revenue in quarter declined more than gross bookings due to bookings made in the quarter that are expect to check-in, in future quarters at which points in time to revenue will be recognized. Take rates in Q1 were a little less than 10%, largely driven by these timing differences. As you recall, we discussed the impact of timing on tape rates in 2020 and 2021 during our last call.

We expect timing to impact take rates all year assuming the booking growth continues to improve during the year. The 61% reduction in revenue resulted adjusted EBITDA loss, $195 million in the quarter. We should never be reduced our variable expense lines like marketing, sales and other more fixed expenses in Q1 were broadly in line with a commentary we provide our last call.

Marketing expense which is highly variable expense line decreased 61% versus 2019. Marketing expenses declined more than gross bookings due to an increase in diet mix and slightly higher ROI in pay channels. Sales and other expenses in Q1 were lower than they were in Q4 on a dollar basis, which is slightly better than expectations.

Personnel expenses were in line with our expectations. Q1 expenses were higher than they were in Q4 on dollar basis, due primarily to increase operational sensation expenses and seasonal increases in benefit costs, partially offset by a higher amount of savings in Q1 related to restructuring actions we have taken.

G&A expenses were lower in Q1 than they were in Q4 on dollar basis versus our expectation for them to be about inline, due to lower than expected personnel related costs and professional fees. Information technology expenses were higher in Q1 than they were in Q4 on dollar basis, but were lower than our expectations due to timing of spent.

Finally, we recorded $8 million restructuring charges in Q1 which was lower than our prior expectations primarily due to timing of real estate restructuring charges. I know these restructuring charges are included in our non-GAAP results. We recorded a non-GAAP net loss of $250 million in the quarter.

Our Q1 non-GAAP tax rate of 38% was immensely higher than our 2019 tax rate of 19% due to the greater impacts of non-tax deductible expenses on a lower base of earnings. On a GAAP basis, we had an operating loss of $311 million in Q1.

We recorded a GAAP net loss of $55 million in the quarter helped by an income tax benefit of $223 million. Our Q1 tax rate of 80%, was meaningfully higher than our 2019 tax rate of 21% due to the impact of non-tax deductible expenses on lower base of earnings and the impact of discrete items recorded in the quarter.

Now on to our cash and liquidity position. Our Q1 earnings cash investment balance or $16.4 billion benefited from the $2 billion raised in our Eurobond offering completed in March. In April, we use all the proceeds from Eurobond offering to redeem to higher coupon senior notes that we issued earlier in the pandemic last year. These refinancing actions we took will result in approximately $70 million of annualized interest rate expense savings and with NPD positive transactions.

Adjusting our Q1 ending cash investments for the redemption of the two senior notes that happened in April will result in a balance of $14.4 billion which is down from our December ending balance of $14.8 billion. We now have $270 million operating cash flow -- offering cash outflow in the quarter, driven primarily by changing working capital which represents the use of cash or about $216 million in the quarter.

We will continue to focus on maintaining a strong liquidity position in the high level of uncertainty created by the current pandemic and consistent with our clients of last year, we've halted our repurchases of our stock and will not initiate repurchases until we have better visibility into the shape and timing of a recovery.

Now, onto our thoughts for the second quarter that continues to be considerable and uncertainty about the shape timing of recovery for travel which means that we are unable to provide detailed guidance at this time. April room nights declined about 43% versus 2019, which is better than the decline in March.

Domestic room night growth was about flat versus 2019 for month of April, the best monthly result for domestic room night since last summer. On a regional basis, the U.S. continue to have very strong room night growth in April and was above March levels.

Europe room night's declines with better in April down in March recovering from a softening of trend we saw at the end of March and the first week of April. Room night's declines in Europe were down over 50% in April. Asian room night declines worsened in April versus March as outbreaks of new cases increases, increased vaccination progress has been slow and governments continue to impose restrictions on travel.

Asia was the least recovered region in April. The rest of the world declines were about the same in April as we were in Q1 and Q4. While difficult to predict with accuracy. As current trends continue, future room night declines could be a few percentage points better than April.

To give you a snapshot of what we are seeing recently, room night declines over the last seven days April were about 38%. As I noted earlier in Western Europe, the booking window expanding Q1. This expansion continues into April and we continue to see positive sum of booking trends in Western Europe.

Across all of Western Europe gross bookings of a certain period are now within 30% of where they were at the same time in 2019. And for the UK, they're now as about the same level as they were at the same time in 2019. We remind you that the significant majority of sort of bookings are cancellable.

Turning to the income statement. As I said, we expect Q2 room night declines could be a few potential points better than the decline in April. We expect Q2 gross bookings to decline slightly less than room nights driven by the same trends we saw in the first quarter.

We expect Q2 revenue to decline more than gross bookings, due to timing factors we have discussed. And a result, we expect our Q2 revenue as a percentage of gross bookings will improve from Q1. It will be a few percentage points lower than in Q2 of 2019.

We expect marketing expense in Q2 will decline a little more than gross bookings but less than revenue. We expect sales and other expenses in Q2 to be up significantly versus Q1 on a dollar basis and will be a higher potential revenue due to high gross booking volumes in the second quarter as well as an increase in the midst of gross bookings process on a merchant basis.

We expect personnel expenses in Q2 will be about the same as they were in Q1 or dollar basis. Compared with Q1 SBC and benefit expenses are expected to be less. But this is offset by an increase in bonus of calls which are recorded proportional to revenue.

We expect July expenses in Q2 will be higher than Q1 on a dollar basis driven by higher personnel related costs such as recruiting and T&A as well as higher professional fees and digital service taxes. We expect IT expenses in Q2 will be higher than Q1 on dollar basis due to increase investments in security, data privacy and some operational systems enhancements, including some deferred expenses from Q1.

We expect, we currently estimate the full-year restructuring charge related to our actions of Booking.com will be approximately $30 million, and we expect to record about half of these charges in the second quarter. Given what we just explained, especially the timing difference between the recovery of bookings and revenue, we expect record EBITDA loss in Q2 or bit less a loss of recorded in Q1.

Depending upon how demand develops during the quarter, this could potentially be a small EBITDA loss in Q2. For the full-year 2021, we continue to expect that the overall environment for travel will improve during the year for the shape and timing of that improvement remains uncertain.

As Glenn mentioned in his remarks, while we're seeing recovery and other encouraging signs in some countries, other countries and regions are struggling with a rapidly growing COVID wave. Globally, the number of new cases reported is increasing with a record 5.7 million new cases recorded the week of April 19. This is directly impacting our business across much of April of Asia.

As a reminder, about the tax of our model during recovery, we continue to expect that if we see continued recovery in 2021, they'll be more bookings made in 2021 that will check-in 2022 then there were bookings made in 2022 that checked-in 2021. This timing Factor could have a meaningful negative impact

On our revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. And also drive deleveraged in our marketing expenses in 2021, as we incurred the majority of marketing expenses at the time of booking.

To remind you in 2018 and 2019, our revenue as a percentage of gross bookings was approximately 15.6%. This increased to 19.2% in 2020. We expect this percentage will be well below 15.6% in 2021 and the faster the recovery occurs, the lower this percentage will be.

Before closing there's been a lot of interest in our commentary in February about the longer-term model for our business. I want to reiterate what we said previously and also provide some more color. We continue to believe it will be years not quarters before we see full recovery of travel market especially international travel.

Looking beyond 2021, we continue to look forward to being a larger business, with more diverse offerings and with more earnings than we had prior to COVID. We also remain focused on the potential for higher growth and market share.

We expect to continue to have industry leading EBITDA margin rates or EBIT most likely levels below those in 2019 driven by mix shifts within the business I discussed on the last call. As a reminder, these mix shifts include the continued growth of payments and the growth of flights and other connection ship verticals, which will add revenue and EBITDA at a much lower margin rates than traditional accommodations.

Now if you think about the future shape of our accommodation business, there are a few factors to consider. As discussed on the last call, we expect our personal expenses in 2021 to be about the same as in 2019 have the savings from restructuring actions taken in 2020 are expected to be offset by personal run rate investments made pre-COVID and personal investments expect in 2021. Of course, some of these investments are to support payments and the connected trip.

As we look beyond 2021, the $370 million in savings from our restructuring actions were mainly in volume related functions, meaning that as volumes grow back to levels, which we expect which means as volumes go beyond level we expect in 2021 will meet to our expenses back to business.

As we mentioned before, we'll look to do this in cost-effective ways but the work or will come back. And when added to our 2021 personnel cost base, we'll put pressure on our accommodation business, EBITDA margins relative to 2019 at the same level of volumes we had in 2019 and at the same growth rate.

Of course, there are offsetting factors that could improve margins including variable cost efficiencies for additional scale as we built growth beyond 2019 volumes from fixed cost efficiencies and from increased direct mix. The last thought I'd like to leave you with on this topic is that we believe that the recovery of travel market will create opportunities to invest, to gain share and accommodations which could put pressure on margins during the period of share gains.

In conclusion, we are pleased to see the recovery we discussed in February, continued into March and April in some parts of the world, leading to improvement in our top line metrics. We're also watching the spread of COVID and the distribution of effective vaccines very carefully and realized this may lead to volatility, continued volatility ahead. We remain in confidence that we can emerge from this crisis in a stronger position.

With that, we'll take your questions and Grace, I'll hand over to you to open the line for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Justin Post from Bank of America. Your line is open.

Q - Justin Post{BIO 3469195 <GO>}
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. I think a couple of things would help. Can you give us any updates or your thoughts on mix between U.S., Europe and in Asia, just so we can think about the recovery?

And then can you remind us what happened in Europe last summer when cases came down? Did you see a rapid increase? And, are you seeing bookings pick up, as people are vaccinated right now in Europe? Thank you.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
David, why don't you take that.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yeah, Justin, let me take that. So just to remind you of our historic mix. We have basically said that Europe is of course our largest region, historically, if you think kind of roughly 50% or maybe a little bit more, you wouldn't be far be incorrect. Asia, we said, historically, again pre COVID was about 20% with no single country being more than low single digits, and that means that you really got 30% left for U.S. and rest of world combined. So, that is our pre-COVID mix, obviously that mix changed a little bit with the dynamic of what happened recently obviously the U.S. has gone, as that's been the most recurrent marketplace.

So, that's the historic reference points. In terms of last summer, we saw a couple of things. We of course did see after the first wave came down, we saw people getting more confidently traveling of course vaccines were still not available that point in time. So people were kind of traveling quite carefully and traveling locally. What we have seen, and we saw in several places, what we've seen so far is a very consistent trend that when cases come down, when vaccination rates go up, when government restrictions start to lift, good things happen. We see that happening in the U.S. right now. We see that happening in Israel. And we mentioned a couple of other areas that are doing better than average. So our expectation is that we'll see those positive trends start to occur in other parts of the world, particularly in Europe as things are starting to improve. As we mentioned, we are seeing things improving on April versus March and European is now no longer the least recovered region.

Q - Justin Post{BIO 3469195 <GO>}
Got it. Maybe one follow-up. You mentioned, share gains maybe for Glenn that opportunities, maybe you can give us a little more color on that? And do you think your U.S. bookings are trending above kind of industry averages right now?

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
So as I said, I'm very pleased with the Q1 results in the U.S., I mentioned both Priceline.com and Booking.com doing well. So we are very happy about that. I don't have -- we're not done with quarter yet, so we don't have industry-wide numbers to go against sounds good, so I'm pleased with what we're producing and we'll see after everybody is reported how we did.

Q - Justin Post{BIO 3469195 <GO>}
Great. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Kopelman from Cowen. Your line is open.

Q - Kevin Kopelman{BIO 17406195 <GO>}
Great. Thanks a lot. A couple of follow-ups on the U.S. growth. Can you give us any more of a sense of how much Q1 improved versus Q4? And obviously, the overall industry improved in the U.S. in the first quarter quite a bit, but was Booking.com or bookings growth in the U.S. also a product of any specific decisions you made in the first quarter, along the lines of your new strategic -- were increasing strategic focus on U.S. share gain, for example, changing the way you're doing marketing or anything like that.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
So when I talk generally about strategy and then David if you want some, I'm not sure he wants to disclose anything more about specific numbers and gains. I will say this, I said this in several calls in the past, actually many, about increasing our performance in the U.S. is a strategic priority. And we have said that we under indexed in the U.S. So we are doing many, many things to try and improve that, everything from the basics of making sure we have the right selections of properties that people want, to make sure at the right price, make sure we're competitive. I talked about how we had a healthy U.S. payments platform up and running for Booking.com, so we can too create new things such as our back to travel promo, which of course wasn't in Q1. But just another example of things that we're doing.

And there's a lot of just blocking and tackling done by both teams Priceline.com and the people of Booking.com working with our suppliers, coming up with the ways that we can help them get more customers. So it's so many different things, there's no one thing to say that was the silver bullet. And I expect that we will be able to continue to do it, I hope we'll to do this in the future. It will remain a priority for us. David, if you want to talk about numbers.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
I will just, Kevin, to reiterate what we said and give you a little flavor to make sure you understand what the emphasis was. So things did improve significantly, sequentially in the U.S. during the quarter, and we had positive room night growth in the U.S. year-on-year which is great because obviously international business was still down a bit right now.

When we got into March that room night growth in the U.S. was very strong which I characterized that as above any of our normal growth rates, that strengthened further into April. So very strong plus and then if you just kind of double click down and look at just the domestic, recognizing there is some substitution effect in that, the growth rate in the U.S. was very strong for the entire quarter, positive for each month of the quarter and getting stronger, and was again stronger in April that it was in March.

Q - Kevin Kopelman{BIO 17406195 <GO>}
Okay, great. And if I could just one follow-up on that on, you did that $50 travel credit promo in April, you see that is kind of an ongoing tactic or strategy that you might use and how much would this shift -- shifting cost from marketing spend to counter revenue.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Well, we just put it out, and it's still an opportunity -- there still is a book on that when it goes till the end of May for U.S. people they can still do a book. I mean we had to do the Apriol that had actually activated.

So we don't have a lot of tactic yet today and what we think that's going to be. It certainly is something that I guess one, one different thing and I pointed out, not because a huge driver. But just as an example, things that we haven't done in the past that we will do in the future. And in fact just to -- you may have noticed it, we started a very similar though not exactly the same program in the UK yesterday or maybe just two days ago.

The point being that we're trying to be more creative and going forward coming over different ways to bring those customers to us, showing them what a great product we have, make sure that we have -- and make sure they come back to us in the future albeit not with the promotion.

Q - Kevin Kopelman{BIO 17406195 <GO>}
Thanks, Glenn. Thanks, David.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney from Evercore. Your line is open.

Q - Mark Mahaney{BIO 3027058 <GO>}
Okay. I guess, I think, I've got two questions. And let me first start off, I think, Glenn, you've made some comments about the mix of alternative accommodations, and being I think relatively similar in the March quarter versus a year ago. And I guess I would have thought that it would have been kind of structurally higher that somehow because of during the COVID crisis, I know you talked about that, that mix increasing. Do you expect it to recover back? Or do you expect it to revert back to where it was before? That is alternative accommodations as a percentage of your lodging mix or would you expect it to be somewhat elevated post COVID just because of the greater exposure that a lot of consumers had to that during the crisis?

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
So Mark, I'm going to -- let me -- I'll answer your question first about the general about general what I expect in the future. As David talked about the mix and he can talk about because we have more in Europe, in the U.S. I'll let him go through that, very certainly, why we are where we are.

In terms of the future here's a situation. We've been saying for many, many years, and everyone to aware of this, that people have been more interested in the alternative accommodation, this is a global phenomenon. And it's been going up in a steady rate for some time.

COVID creating a step functional change, where people who may never thought about alternative accommodations, now they are thinking I want to go to a home, that's not near people anything it would be, it would be the mountains, and we feel safer there.

Now having tried that in the future the question is you just asked is, will people go back to their former habits of some people going to hotels, some people homes, going to be a more gradual increase, in will be a drop back first, and then back up. I don't think anybody really knows. But I would make the guess that people having tried the alternative accommodations during the pandemic we'll forever have it in their consideration set. And they may not always use it, they will choose what type of property fits their needs. But now because it is part of their consideration set, I think there is a functional change increase mix in the long run.

That being said, for us, we do both. We have the greatest selection of both hotels and non-hotel accommodations together combined so we feel we are very well positioned globally for that though I have spoken as in some regions we are definitely insufficient supply that we need to build up. And Dave, if you want to explain again about the issue because of mix in terms of geographies and the mix in properties?

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yes. Mark, let me just explain that maybe in slightly different way. So starting with Europe, if you just look out our business within Europe, you only looked at that lance. You would see alternative accommodation mix in Q1 this last year up a fair amount compared to Q1 of '20 and also versus Q1 2019.

So within Europe where we have our largest mix of alternative accommodation, we see an increase in mix. But you also remember, I said that Europe in Q1 was our lowest performing region. And of course, the highest reforming region was the U.S. where we have a much lower of alternative accommodation. So that's mix effect, means in total our alternative accommodations mix did not increase, but in Europe, for example, where it's the largest, it did increase a fair amount. So mix effect is really the biggest reason.

In total in Q1 the mix alternative accommodation is very similar to the 30% number we gave out for all of FY '20 but again within different regions there are mix shifts occurring.

Q - Mark Mahaney{BIO 3027058 <GO>}
If I can ask one, follow-up question, I think you talked about a better ROI and paid marketing channels, and just your guess as to whether that's sustainable or not. Thanks a lot.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yeah, it's a good question. There are many things going on in ROI. Yes, we did see slightly improved ROIs on the paid channels. We also saw an increase in direct mix and those together less have Montenegro less than Bookings in the quarter. But there are many factors that go into accounting ROIs, including your cost-per-click conversion rate, cancellation rates and we're still in a period with a high volatility across all of those. So it's not reasonable to point to any one factor as to why ROIs were up or they were up slightly 1 point than us. And it's only just one quarter. So given the volatility of things happening, we want to point it out but too early to call a trend.

Q - Mark Mahaney{BIO 3027058 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you, David. Thank you, Glenn.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Q - Chris Kuntarich{BIO 20057772 <GO>}
Hi. This is Chris on fir Lloyd. Thanks for taking our question. Can you just talk a little bit about, I guess booking frequency associated sounds like there has been meaningful pick up in share with you guys' app. Just kind of talk to us a little bit about booking frequency on app and how that compares to non app users? Thanks.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Dave, I don't know if ever disclose anything to the frequency on the.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
No, obviously, Chris, let me tell you that what we have talked about and see the answer the question, and then maybe we're not kind of maybe we haven't got your question completely right, but just to kind of remind as where we are right now. Over two-thirds of our bookings are mobile. Majority of those are on app booking, customers are most frequent bookers relative to other direct channels. Because obviously we can have a direct booking through a mobile web direct booking or through a desktop booking, and the app bookers are the most of the most loyal and the most returning.

But we really haven't gone into frequency. And also, I say right now in the current environment where we're still very much recovering, frequency metrics are not the most critical ones that we focus on right now is more than overall top -- the overall top-line growth rates. But we are pleased with what we're seeing with the trend towards app usage, the increase in the app mix and the repeat behavior of app users those are all positive things for us.

Q - Chris Kuntarich{BIO 20057772 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And just want to make sure more of a housekeeping question. I saw a little bit of repurchase activity that was not related to you guys starting up your buyback again, is that correct?

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
No, that was related to employee stock purchases.

Q - Chris Kuntarich{BIO 20057772 <GO>}
Very good. Thanks.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
That was not buyback related.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Q - Alex Wang{BIO 20435123 <GO>}
Hi. This is Alex Wang on for Brian. Thanks for taking our question. First just on flights, I appreciate the update on the roll out to 18 countries. Maybe early learnings, if you could share with us part taken in the U.S. and potentially attach rates that you could share? And sort of what do you foresee as the key two or three incremental investments to sort of execute on flights as we progress through the year?

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Sure. So we don't give away, I don't believe we ever talked about the actual attach rates. But, I will say that, that is an important reason we do flights. And then getting that booker upfront is important so that we can then get them to buy something that will have a higher margin.

The 18 countries in that Booking.com is now working and we are getting initial maneuver for some time obviously, I guess a year now, approximately. We are getting some learnings, how can we improve it, how can we make it better. We really haven't marketed this at all in terms of the way we market our hotel offering because we want to get it right before we start spending a lot of money, we don't want to waste money as you know.

I am very pleased though with the very limited effort that we've done that people are using it and we are getting feedback that people who are coming back, so that's good. It's something that's important for the long run. And I want to emphasize how much this is a long game we're playing here. Because as you know the number is still very, very, very small and this is very early.

But we hope in the long run the disconnected trip which is not just the flights, but it's also the ground transportation, and the attractions, and the dining, all the things that people do when they are traveling to create something that makes them want to always use our app more than anything else when they think of travel they come back to us. So it's critical that we have that first thing which is important to a lot of people flights. And we're going to continue to make investments into it to make sure that it is absolutely a great, great service.

Q - Alex Wang{BIO 20435123 <GO>}
Got it. Just one follow-up. I think a couple of quarters ago, you guys had tested a digital brand campaign. I'm not sure if there is anything you can share on that. But maybe bigger picture, as we look at the performance channels Xsearch [ph] do you see any opportunities to sort of lean into more of the non-search performance channels with online video as we're seeing increasing sort of digital transformation as a result of the pandemic.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
What we recognize that's where the eyeballs are going. So we need to make sure that we are putting our name appropriately in front of people when they think of travel, they think of us. So we are cognizant of that fact and we are working on that. So yes, we will continue to work with that.

Q - Alex Wang{BIO 20435123 <GO>}
Great, thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Mario Lu from Barclays. Your line is open.

Q - Mario Lu{BIO 20399273 <GO>}
Great. Thanks for taking the questions. I have one on agency versus merchant bookings and then one on payments. So the one on agency versus a merchant, it looks like the merchant bookings recovered to a level much quicker in one Q compared to agency. Is there anything to kind of call out there to explain the quicker recovery? And then on payments, you guys mentioned, you guys are north of 20% of bookings. Is there a specific target you guys plan to reach in the long-term? And how should that flow through to say revenue and operating margins over time? Thanks.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Dave, why don't you talk about the agency merchant question, and I'll talk about the long vision on payments.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Sure. So actually we saw a slightly lower mix of merchants in Q1 this year than in Q1 last year, both in total on Booking.com because bear in mind you are comparing essentially an almost a non-crisis quarter last year of course Q1 in March things got worse, the most of the quarter was not crisis, and now you're talking about comparing with a quarter that is very much still in the crisis with recovery mode.

So people in the short-term looking at the more flexible agency pay to hotel model because that has just an attractive proposition in times like this flexibility becomes very important. We do expect the merchants business to actually increase during the year at Booking.com where we have obviously the big mix shift happening. And we still think that the merchants business in total in 2021 will be a slightly higher mix than it was in 2020. But of course flexibility is one of the factors that is important as people are looking at bookings in this environment. So that's what's going on this year.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
In the long view we'd like to get as much business possible on payments because we believe we'll create a better service for both our customers, for traveling and our supplier partners. They'd be able to do all sorts of things you can't do, when it's just a straight agency play.

And we believe we can provide value to everyone in that way. And I gave that example earlier about we couldn't do a back to travel promotion if we didn't have a payment product to do that. And there many ways, we're going to be able to merchandize people's -- our supplier partners different ways to merchandise their offerings in ways that you can really only do well with a payment platform.

And of course, putting things together bundling all different things. So obviously we would like to get as many people in because it's good for everybody who comes into it, both the customer and supplier.

That being said, we know that we'll never get to 100%. There will be still be lots of people who will say, I need this hotel. Like this agency paying, I paid the desk that's full time we'll see if that happens, whatever. But even in that situation, we may actually do the payment for the hotel in a way we can save them money. So it's a great opportunity for us, that is the Long view and it's going to take some time to get there.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yes, and then just to kind of reiterate what we said before about how it plays out in the income statements. We get additional revenue from providing the payment service. We have variable cost related to that sitting in sales and other issues where you see the biggest offsetting a cost element to offset to match the revenue. There are some incremental expenses obviously in our other lines as well, related to running the payments program but the biggest variable costs are sitting sales and other.

As we mentioned in 2020, the payments business operated very close to breakeven when factoring particularly variable costs into account, which is an improvement from what it was before and it's obviously ---an enabler for business as Glenn just articulated. So we want to continue to grow the mix and maintain that breakeven profile as we're growing it out, recognizing -- in the future, we recognize there are monetization opportunities that can lead to incremental EBITDA from the payments business, which we expect albeit at lower margin rates than core accommodations.

Q - Mario Lu{BIO 20399273 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Q - Analyst
Very good afternoon. This is Dave on for Doug. Thanks for taking the questions. My first one is on the alternative accommodation product. You talked about works needed to improve the product in the U.S. Is that just inventory and awareness that you talked about in the past or are there other areas where you see opportunities to improve?

And then just on the room night growth and booking growth, it seems like there has been a sizable divergence in trajectory. Kind of feel like it could be affecting that border anything else notable that's driving that and how should we think about the relationship between the two going forward?

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
So I'll take the first and Dave why don't you take the second. So in terms of the alternative accommodations in the states, and the things you mentioned are very, very important. And we've got to have the right properties for the customer. And I talked about this in the past that we under index with the private homes, the single homes in the states.

And that has been a popular product in the states because of the pandemic. And that's something that we are continuing work on in the future. It's also just the process in general how we get people on board, who are dealing with to get them to come in. And we currently are using the multi-product property managers more than say some of our competitors who go out and get individual property. So, there's a difference in how we're doing it right now. I do believe this is a very, very achievable goal to be as competitive as anybody else.

As David mentioned earlier about mix, we do a great business in Europe in the alternative accommodations area, a very good business. And there's no reason we shouldn't be able to do the exact same thing here in the states so it is taking time.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yeah. On what's going on between the dynamic, between room night growth and booking growth. Now, a couple of factors going on here, one I mentioned the fact that we're doing that we're seeing better booking growth performance from flights because of volume. And also we're doing though the units are down 4% to 6% in comp, there's actually fairly good increase in rates of the cars the total bookings, the TTV is down better for both lights and cars are going to digital accommodations.

But the biggest factor is really what's going on with ADRs, and there has been a bit of a shift in what we've seen in the last couple of months. And we are -- saw that ADRs in the quarter with only down 1%. Now, I would say that a couple of things, the like-for-like ADRs are absolutely still under pressure due to low occupancy rates, but there are some mixed benefits that really impact a year on your comparison. The first mix benefit was -- the mix shift towards the U.S. the U.S. really start to accelerate particularly in March.

You saw a really fast pickup in growth rates in March that we were not forecasting when we last met, you see that was a positive for room night growth but also for ADRs and also in Europe what's happening right now because there are still a lot of restrictions, people booking today are booking generally more often for the summer holiday and the summer holiday period in Europe as higher ADR than most short-term sales. So those two mix effects are really helping the ADR picture and we expect that both the phenomena that I talked about in terms of air and car and ADRs likely to go through Q2 as well.

But we do think the ADRs will start to be getting down again in the second half due to a couple of reasons again. The life of the low ADRs are under pressure, an example, our stayed ADRs in the first quarter were down mid-teens if you exclude regional mix that's more of like the like, comparison. So that like-for-like comparison is more likely to kind of expose in the second half.

Regional mix may continue to help but then we do think that this earlier booking of the summer -- benefit of the summer bookings will fade, and the reported ADRs will become more comparable with the underlying stayed ADRs and those will converge back together more in the second half than they did in the first half. So some interesting phenomenas going on with mix and with booking window in Europe driving what we're going to see in Q1, Q2.

Q - Analyst
Great. Thank you, both.

Operator
Thank you. And your last question comes from the line of Deepak Mathivanan from Wolfe Research. Your line is open.

Q - Deepak Mathivanan{BIO 17464056 <GO>}
Great. Hey guys, thanks for taking the questions. Just a couple ones. So first, wanted to go back to your comment about investing to gain share with the margin opportunity. How should we think about your approach strategically? Is it on variable marketing channels? Obviously there's a few products that you have talked about before, but are there any other initiatives that you would notice something that could be impactful during this recovery period?

And then the second question is on the labor market situation here in the U.S. Obviously, it's very tight and some of the hotel operators have called out the challenges there as well. How do you think this affects your business if at all? Maybe broadly talk about how supply-side is evolving during the recovery.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
So I'll tell start with the second part labor and I'll let David go back to margins and how things can look over or as we continue to go for the future. So certainly we've all read and heard news articles about shortages right now popping up in different areas of the hospitality industry. And some of the leaders in the industry particularly some of the hotels and restaurants saying just can't get workers.

But I don't believe that's going to impact where people aren't going to be able to find a place to stay at all. Right now there is no shortage in my mind of great places for people to go to and I don't see that happening. Yes, some property types, may be short at certain times during high season, particularly some of the very popular areas in the summer as leisure comes back in some parts of the world. But overall for the business, I don't see this as a significant or even a small risk to the business at all. And Dave you can talk a little about margins.

A - David I. Goulden{BIO 1477167 <GO>}
Yeah. I mean clearly business like us there's always a trade-off between growth and profitability well growth and margins particularly in the short-term. And the areas that we would expect to be lean into, there are a number of initiatives that we can drive to leaning to drive further growth. Obviously, we need to be smart, we need to be nimble, we need to look at where the pockets of opportunity are. But, we continue to be I think a very good market here in the pay channels and look at those demand opportunities, and really have the opportunity to lead into that, where we think we can -- where we think we can actually gain incremental traffic.

We can do things with merchandising and we can also do things with things like promotions like back to travel. Also there are areas like brand. So there are multiple levers we can pull to drive growth above market where we believe there are opportunities to do so. And we believe that the recovery obviously presents a very dynamic environment for everybody.

We want to make sure that we are taking advantage of opportunities that we can either make or made for us. And those are things that would in a short-term impact margins. Bear in mind as we talked about what's happening this year, during periods of time when bookings are growing faster than revenue that impacts the business. Because generally our expenses are associated upfront with capturing the booking and the revenue comes later. So those are all the things that go into the dynamics around growth versus margin in the accommodation business.

Q - Deepak Mathivanan{BIO 17464056 <GO>}
Got it. That's very helpful. Thank you so much.

Operator
Thank you, everyone. And that's all the questions that we have for today. I'll turn the call over back to our CEO, Glenn Fogel for any closing remarks.

A - Glenn D. Fogel{BIO 16619542 <GO>}
Thank you. So in closing, I want to thank our partners, our customers, our dedicated employees, and our shareholders. We appreciate your support, as we continue to navigate through these better though still difficult times. And we want to continue to build on the long-term vision for our company. And thank you. Thank everyone, and please be safe. Good night.

Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for joining. You may now all disconnect.