Q4 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Craig A. Lampo
Craig Lampo
+1-203-265-8625
12/2023-PRESENT | Pctel Inc, EXECUTIVE OFFICER
7/2015-PRESENT | Amphenol Corp, SENIOR VP/CFO
2015-PRESENT | Amphenol Corp Master Trust, SENIOR VP/CFO
, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
R. Adam Norwitt, President and Chief Executive Officer
Other Participants
Amit Daryanani, Analyst, Evercore
Chris Snyder, Analyst, UBS
David Kelley, Analyst, Jefferies
Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse
Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup
Luke Junk, Analyst, Baird
Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Matt Sheerin, Analyst, Stifel
Michael Anastasio, Analyst, Cowen
Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, JP Morgan
Steven Fox, Analyst, Fox Advisors
Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America
William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities
Presentation
Operator
Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation. Following today's presentation, there will be a formal question-and-answer session. Until then, all lines will remain in a listen-only mode. At the request of the company, today's conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to introduce today's conference host Mr. Craig Lampo. Sir, you may begin.

Craig A. Lampo{BIO 7286361 <GO>}
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. This is Craig Lampo, Amphenol's CFO and I'm here together with Adam Norwitt, our CEO. We would like to wish everyone a Happy New Year and welcome you to our fourth quarter 2022 conference call. Our fourth quarter and full year 2022 results were released this morning. I will provide some financial commentary and then Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends, then we will take questions.

As a reminder, during the call, we may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures and make certain forward-looking statements. So please refer to the relevant disclosures in our press release for further information. In addition, all prior year comparative data discussed during this call is on a continuing operations basis.

The company closed the fourth quarter with sales of $3,239 million and GAAP and adjusted EPS of $0.82 and $0.78 respectively. Fourth quarter sales were up 7% in US dollars, 11% in local currencies and 8% organically compared to the fourth quarter of 2021. Sequentially, sales were down by 2% in US dollars, 1% in local currencies and 2% organically. Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.

For the full year 2022, sales were a record $12,623 million, which were up 16% in US dollars, 19% in local currencies and 15% organically compared to 2021. Orders in the quarter were $2,884 million, which was down 12% compared to the fourth quarter of 2021 and 8% sequentially, resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 0.89:1. This was driven by lower bookings in the communications-related markets.

For the full year, orders were 12,925 million, resulting a book-to-bill ratio of 1.02:1. GAAP and adjusted operating income were $666 million and $676 million respectively in the fourth quarter of 2022. GAAP and adjusted operating margin were 20.6% and 20.9% respectively in the fourth quarter. On a GAAP basis, operating margin increased by 100 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of '21 and decreased by 10 basis points sequentially. GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter included approximately $10 million of acquisition-related costs.

On an adjusted basis, operating margin increased by 80 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of '21 and decreased by 10 basis points sequentially. The year-over-year increase in adjusted operating margin was driven by strong operating leverage on the higher sales volumes, as well as the benefit of ongoing pricing actions. On a sequential basis, the slight decrease in adjusted operating margin reflected normal downside conversion on the lower sales levels.

For the full-year 2022, GAAP operating margin was 20.5% and adjusted operating margin was 20.7%. When compared to 2021, adjusted operating margin increased by 70 basis points, which was primarily driven by normal operating leverage on the higher sales volumes, as well as the benefit of pricing actions. Given the overall cost and supply-chain headwinds we experienced in 2022, we are very proud that our adjusted operating margin equaled our previous full-year record operating margin set in 2018.

Breaking down fourth quarter and full-year results by segment, in the Harsh Environment Solutions segment, sales were $795 million and $3,107 million in the fourth quarter and full year of 2022 respectively. Compared to the prior year fourth-quarter, segment sales increased 10% in US dollars and 12% organically. Compared to the full-year 2021, segment sales increased by 13% in US GAAP dollars and 15% organically. Segment operating margin was 25.7% and 25.8% in the fourth quarter and full-year of 2022 respectively.

In the Communications Solutions segment, sales were $1,436 million and $5,652 million in the fourth quarter and full-year 2022. Compared to the prior year fourth quarter, segment sales increased 1% in US dollars and organically. Compared to the full-year 2021, segment sales increased by 17% in US dollars and 13% organically. Segment operating margin was 22.2% and 22% in the fourth quarter and full-year of 2022.

In the Interconnect and Sensor Systems segment, sales were $1,008 million and $3,863 million in the fourth quarter and full year of 2022. Compared to the prior year fourth-quarter, segment sales increased 14% in US dollars and 17% organically. Compared to the full-year 2021, segment sales increased by 17% in US dollars and 18% organically. Segment operating margin was 19.2% and 18.5% in the fourth quarter and full-year 2022.

The company's GAAP effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 19.2% and the adjusted effective tax-rate was 24.5%, which compared to 18.8% and 23.8% in the fourth quarter of 2021 respectively. For the full year 2022, GAAP effective tax rate was 22.3% and the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.5%, which compared to 20.6% and 24.3% of 2021. In 2023, we expect our adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 24%.

GAAP-diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.82 in the fourth quarter, an increase of 14% compared to $0.72 in the prior year period. Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.78, an increase of 11% compared to $0.70 in the fourth quarter of '21, this was an excellent result. For the full-year, GAAP-diluted EPS from continuing operations was $3.06, a 22% increase from $2.51 in 2021. Adjusted diluted EPS was $3 in 2022, a 21% increase from $3.48 in 2021.

Operating cash flow in the fourth quarter was a record $705 million or 147% of adjusted net income. And net of capital spending, our free cash flow was a record $613 million or 127% of adjusted net income. We are pleased to have delivered a cash-flow yield at these strong levels. For the full-year 2022, operating cash flow was a record $2,175 million or 117% of adjusted net income. And net of capital spending our free cash flow for 2022 was a record $1,796 million or 96% of adjusted net income, a very strong result.

From a working capital standpoint, inventory days, days sales outstanding and payable days, were 86, 73 and 54 days respectively. During the quarter, the company repurchased $2.3 million shares of common stock at an average price of approximately $75, bringing total repurchases during 2022 to 9.9 million shares for $731 million. When combined with our normal quarterly dividend, total capital returned to shareholders in 2022 was more than $1.2 billion. Total debt on December 31 was $4.6 billion and net debt was $3.1 billion. Total liquidity at the end of the quarter was a very strong $4.1 billion, which included cash and short-term investments on-hand of $1.4 billion, plus availability under our existing credit facilities.

Fourth quarter and full year 2022 EBITDA was $798 million and $3.1 billion respectively. And at the end-of-the fourth quarter of 2022, our net leverage ratio was 1.0 times. I also wanted to make a few comments on interest expense. As I mentioned last quarter, due to the rising interest-rate environment, our interest expense has increased primarily as a result of our floating re-commercial paper, which represents approximately 14% of our total debt outstanding at the end of the year. And based on current and near-term expected interest rates and debt level, we expect 2023 quarterly interest expense to be approximately $40 million, which is reflected in our first quarter guidance.

I will now turn it over to Adam, who will provide some commentary on current market trends as well as the recently-completed acquisition this month.

R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Well, thank you very much, Craig and welcome to all of you to our first earnings call of 2023 and I hope it's not too late, to us said well, all of you a Happy New Year and to those of you who celebrate the Lunar New Year, I wish you all a Happy Year of the Rabbit. As Craig mentioned, I'm going to highlight our fourth quarter and full-year 2022 achievements, including some discussion about the acquisitions that we mentioned in our press release. I'll then discuss our trends and progress in our served markets and then make some comments on our outlook for the first quarter and then of course, we'll have time for questions at the end.

So turning to the fourth quarter, our results in the fourth quarter were stronger than expected. Exceeding the high-end of our guidance in sales and adjusted diluted earnings per share. Sales grew by 7% in US dollars and 11% in local currencies, reaching $3,239 million. On an organic basis, our sales increased by 8% and that was driven by robust growth in the broadband, commercial air, automotive and military end-markets and I'll give some more details about those markets in a few moments.

The company booked $2,884 million in orders in the fourth quarter, representing a book-to-bill of 0.89:1 and this negative book-to-bill was driven by order reductions in several of the communications-related markets that certain customers adjusted demand in light of excess inventory that they built up throughout 2022. We're especially pleased to have delivered another quarter of resilient and strong profitability, with adjusted operating margins reaching 20.9% and 80 basis-point increase from prior year. We achieved these results despite the continued wide range of challenges around the world.

Adjusted diluted EPS, as Craig mentioned, was $0.78 representing robust growth of 11% from prior year and that's just another excellent reflection of our organization's continued strong execution. Finally, the company generated record operating and free-cash-flow in the quarter of $705 million and $613 million respectively, clear reflection of the quality of the company's earnings. I'm extremely proud of our team around the world and our results this quarter once again reflect the discipline and agility of our entrepreneurial organization, as we continue to perform well amidst the challenging and dynamic environment.

We're also pleased to announce that we closed the acquisition of Control Measure Regulation Group or CMR, just here in January. CMR is based in France and has annual sales of approximately $75 million. And there are manufacturers of a broad array of cable assemblies and complex interconnect assemblies for the industrial market, with a particular focus on heavy equipment engine applications. This acquisition further expands our offering of high-technology, value-added interconnect products in the diversified industrial market.

In addition, we are pleased to have signed an agreement for the acquisition of the North American hybrid and fiber-optic cable and cable assembly, as well as the Global Infrastructure Antenna Business of RFS at the end-of-the fourth quarter. Based just down the street from us here in Maryland, Connecticut, RFS is a provider of interconnect and antenna products for the mobile networks market, with expected sales of approximately $100 million in 2023. This acquisition, which we anticipate will close by the end-of-the second-quarter and thus is not included in our guidance.

Expand Amphenol's product offering and presence with mobile network service providers, we're continuing to invest in their next-generation 5G networks. As we welcome the outstanding CMR team to Amphenol and look ahead to welcome the RFS team once that transaction closes, we remain confident that our acquisition program will continue to create great value for the company.

Our ability to identify and execute upon acquisitions and successfully bring these new companies into Amphenol, remains a core competitive advantage for the company. I just want to make a few comments about 2022 and I would just say that, 2022 was another very successful year for Amphenol. We expanded our position in the overall market, growing sales by 16% in US dollars, 19% in local currencies and 15% organically, reaching a new sales record of $12,623 million.

In fact, over the past three very dynamic years, we're proud to have grown our sales by more than 50% from our 2019 levels actually, 53% to be exact, a great reflection of the company's diversification and agility in these truly dynamic times. Our full-year 2022 adjusted operating margins reached 20.7% and that was an increase of 70 basis points from 2021. The strong level of profitability enabled us to achieve a record adjusted diluted EPS of $3.

Finally, we generated record operating and free cash flow of $2,175 million and $1,796 million, respectively. Clear confirmations of the company, superior execution and disciplined working capital management. Our acquisition program again created value this year with two new company has added to the Amphenol family in 2022 and one added here already in 2023.

CMR, NPI, and ICA Holdings have expanded our position across a broad array of technologies, particularly in the industrial market, while bringing outstanding and talented individuals into the Amphenol family. We're excited that these acquisitions as well as the RFS acquisition, which we expect to close at the end of the second quarter represent expanded platforms for the company's future performance.

We also bought back in 2022 almost 10 million shares under our share buyback program and increased our quarterly dividend by 5%, representing as Craig detailed, a total return of capital to shareholders of just over $1.2 billion for the year. Finally and really importantly, especially in today's dynamic environment, we come out of 2022 in an uniquely robust financial position with the lowest leverage and highest liquidity and availability, we've seen really in modern times.

And while there continues to be a high level of volatility in the overall market environment in 2022, as we enter 2023, our agile entrepreneurial management team is confident that we've built further strength from which we can drive superior long-term performance. I'd like to spend a little bit of time to talk about our trends and progress across our served markets and I would just comment that we remain very pleased that our balanced and broad end-market diversification continues to create real value for the company with no single end-market, representing more than 25% of our sales in the year of 2022. We believe this diversification mitigates the impact of the volatility of individual end markets, while continuing to expose us to leading technologies wherever they may arise across the electronics industry.

Turning first to the military market. This market represented 10% of our sales in the fourth quarter and 9% of our sales for the full year. Sales in the quarter grew strongly from prior year, increasing by 11% in US dollars and 13% in local currencies and on an organic basis, sales increased by 12% with broad-based growth across virtually all applications. But particularly military vehicle space and airframe. Sequentially, our sales increased by a better-than-expected 11%.

For the full-year 2022, sales grew by 4% in US dollars, 6% in local currencies and 4% organically, reflecting our operational execution as well as strength in space related, unmanned aerial vehicles, ground vehicles and avionics applications.

Looking ahead, we expect sales in the first-quarter to grow slightly from these fourth-quarter levels and we continue to be excited by the strength of the company's position in the defense market, where we offer the industry's broadest array of high-technology interconnect products. As the geopolitical environment has become more dynamic, militaries around the world are expanding their investments in next-generation technologies, thereby increasing the demand potential. We look-forward to supporting this increased demand with our expanded range of interconnect and sensor products as well as our significant investments in new capacity that we have made in recent years.

The commercial aerospace market represented 3% of our sales in the fourth-quarter as well as for the full-year 2022. And in the quarter, our sales grew by a very strong 33% in US dollars and 38% in local-currency and organic, as we benefited from the continued recovery in the commercial air market. Sequentially, our sales grew by 13% from the third-quarter, which was well-ahead of our expectations coming into the quarter. For the full-year 2022, sales increased by 36% in US dollars, 40% in local-currency and 36% organically, reflecting our strong design and positions on a broad range of platforms, as well as the ongoing recovery in-demand for aircraft.

Looking into the first-quarter of 2003, we expect now a modest sequential moderation in sales. I just want to say how grateful I am to our team that's working in the commercial air market. Over the last three years, they've performed really well amidst a truly volatile demand environment. And with the ongoing recovery in travel and thus in-demand for jet liners. Our team's efforts to strengthen our breadth of high-technology interconnect and sensor products, while diversifying our market position, including into next-generation aircraft are now paying real dividends. We look-forward to realizing the benefits of this in 2023 and beyond.

The industrial market represented 25% of our sales both in the fourth-quarter and for the full-year and sales in the quarter grew by 7% in US dollars, 12% in local-currency, and 7% organically from the prior year fourth-quarter. This growth was driven in particular by sales into alternative energy, battery and electric heavy vehicle, factory automation, oil and gas and medical applications. On a sequential basis, sales were down by just 1%, which was a bit better than our expectations.

For the full-year 2022, sales grew by a strong 14% in US dollars, 19% in local-currency, and 13% organically. And we really had broad-based growth across virtually all segments of the global industrial market. And looking into the first-quarter, we expect sales in the industrial market to be roughly at the same level as we achieved here in the fourth-quarter. Our outstanding global team working in the industrial market continues to find new opportunities for growth across the many segments of this exciting market.

I remain confident that our long-term strategy to expand our high-technology interconnect antenna and sensor offering, both organically and through complementary acquisitions has positioned us to capitalize on the many revolutions happening across the industrial electronics market. To that end, the addition of CMR further strengthens our position, particularly in the important heavy equipment segment. And we look-forward to realizing the benefits of this strategy for many years to come.

The automotive market represented 21% of our sales both in the fourth-quarter and for the full-year and we had another great quarter in automotive with sales growing by a strong 21% in US dollars and 31% in local currency and organic. Our growth is broad-based, but was once again particularly robust in hybrid and electric vehicle applications.

On a sequential basis, our automotive sales increased by 5%, which was above our prior expectations. For the full-year 2022, I'm very pleased that our sales increased by a strong 22% in US dollars and 29% in local-currency and organic. Reflecting broad strength across our automotive markets, including in particular in next generation electronics, including electric and hybrid drivetrains.

Looking into 2023, we expect a high-single-digit sequential moderation of sales in the first-quarter from these high levels, driven especially by a seasonal moderation of sales in Asia. I remain extremely proud of our team working in the automotive market. They continue to manage through a dynamic overall environment, all while remaining focused on driving new design-wins with customers who are implementing a wide array of new technologies into their vehicles. In particular, our long-term efforts are expanding our range of next-generation interconnects, incorporated into electric and hybrid electric vehicles has enabled Amphenol to expand our position with a broad range of customers and thereby created further potential for the future.

The mobile devices market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter and a 11% of our sales for the full-year 2022. Our sales in the quarter declined from prior year-by 11% in US dollars and 7% in local-currency and organically. And this was driven by reduced sales of products incorporated into smartphones, laptops, tablets and wearables.

Sequentially, our sales declined as we had expected by 10% as demand was impacted by a pull-forward of demand into the third-quarter as we previously discussed 90 days ago. For the full-year 2022, sales in this market increased by 3% in US dollars and 5% organically, as growth in smartphones and wearables was somewhat offset by a moderation in tablets coming off the high levels of the pandemic. We are pleased with this performance amidst the market with generally muted demand in 2022.

As we look into the first-quarter of '23, we anticipate the seasonal sequential decline of approximately 35%. And while mobile devices will always remain one of our most volatile markets, our outstanding and agile team is poised as always to capture any opportunities for incremental sales that may arise in 2023 and beyond.

Our leading array of antennas, interconnect products and mechanisms continues to enable a broad range of next-generation mobile devices, which positions us well for the long-term. The mobile networks market represented 4% of our sales in the quarter and 5% for the full-year 2022. Sales in the quarter declined from prior year by 8% in US dollars, 6% in local currency and 12% organically, as we experienced a pause in demand from operators after a number of quarters of strong growth. Sequentially, our sales declined by higher-than expected 17%.

For the full year '22, sales grew by 8% from prior year and 3% organically as we saw increased demand for products used in next-generation 5G equipment. Looking ahead, we expect a high-single digit sequential reduction in sales in the first-quarter as operators continue to moderate their investments.

Our team continues to work aggressively to realize the benefits of their efforts to expand our position in next-generation 5G equipment and networks around the world. And as customers continue their investments in these systems, we look-forward to benefiting from the increased potential that comes from our unique position with both equipment manufacturers and mobile service providers.

We're also excited by the pending acquisition of the hybrid and fiber optic cable and antenna assets of RFS, which will further broaden our product offering for this important market. The information technology and data communications market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter and 21% of sales for the full-year. Sales in the fourth-quarter declined by 6% in US dollars, 5% in local currency and 8% organically from prior year. As many customers reduced their demand after five consecutive quarters of robust double-digit growth.

Sequentially, our sales declined by 11% as we had expected coming into the quarter. For the full-year 2022, our sales in the IT datacom market grew by a strong 18% in US dollars, 19% in local currency and 14% organically, as we continue to benefit from our leading technology solutions and design and positions across a wide array of applications.

Looking ahead, we expect a roughly 20% sequential decline in sales in the first-quarter, as our OEM and web service customers continue to moderate their demand levels. Regardless of this current demand pause, we remain encouraged by the company's outstanding position in the global IT datacom market. Our team has done an excellent job developing leading high speed power and fiber optic interconnect products. That are enabling our OEM and web service provider customers to continue to drive their equipment and networks to higher levels of performance. We look forward to realizing the benefits of that leading position in this important market for many years to come.

Finally, the broadband market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and 5% of our sales for the full-year 2022. Sales increased by a very strong 79% in US dollars, 82% in local currencies and 64% organically, as we experienced a significant increase in demand from cable operators for a wide range of our products. On a sequential basis, sales grew by a much better-than-expected 19%.

For the full-year of 2022, sales grew by 62% in US dollars and 38% organically, as we benefited from strong demand from broadband service operators who are both upgrading and expanding their data networks, as well as from the Halo acquisition completed last year. Looking ahead, we expect sales to decline in the low-double-digits from these levels due to seasonal adjustments from customers.

We remain encouraged by the company's expanding position in the broadband market and we look forward to continuing to support our service provider customers around the world, all of whom are working to increase their bandwidth to support the proliferation of high-speed data applications to homes and businesses. And in certain cases and furtherance of government programs to expand broadband.

Now, just in summary, I want to comment on our outlook. The current economic environment remains highly uncertain. In addition, as we did discuss earlier, we have seen certain customers in the communications markets reduced their demand is they normalize inventory levels. Assuming market conditions do not meaningfully worsen and also assuming constant exchange rates, for the first quarter, we expect sales in the range of $2,840 million to $2,900 million and adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $0.65 to $0.67. This would represent a sales decline of 2% to 4% and adjusted diluted EPS of flat-to-down 3% compared to the first quarter of '22.

I remain confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to adapt to the many opportunities and challenges in the current environment and to continue to grow our market position while driving sustainable and robust profitability over the long term. And finally, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our entire team around the world for their truly outstanding efforts here in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2022.

And with that operator, we'd be very happy to take any questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. The question-and-answer period will now began. (Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Guy Hardwick with Credit Suisse. You may go ahead.

Q - Guy Hardwick{BIO 4653118 <GO>}
Hi, good afternoon.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Good afternoon.

Q - Guy Hardwick{BIO 4653118 <GO>}
I think I'll leave the question on guidance to call is off to after me, but Adam. I just -- when I speak to investors about Amphenol. They push back initially if they don't know the company that well that's why isn't this company exposed to commodity price deflation if it's selling components to the electronics industry? What was your -- what would be your push-back on that? and maybe if you could talk about some of the content drivers in connectors and other products?

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yeah, well, thanks so much, Guy. I think what you're referring to is kind of Moore's Law, which says that over time whether it's every 18 months or some approximation thereof that electronics tend to get a doubling of the performance for the given price. And I think that is true in Electronics that if you looked at the devices that we use today the networks that we get so much more out of those things given the increase or even in certain cases, not increase of what we pay for those things today and so it comes down to innovation.

And are we as a company, innovating developing products that are enabling our customer's applications and allowing our customers to sell value. And so you mentioned commodity and we don't view our products as a commodity actually we view them as a very precious piece of jewelry almost that the interconnect products that we make from connectors to value-add interconnect, sensors and antennas, these are highly critical components that go into very complex systems, everything from mobile devices, all the way up to fighter jets and everything in between. And they represent also a very-high risk and relatively low-value as a percentage of the total bill of materials.

And thus if you can embed technology, if you can embed value, if you can be there for your customers. Well, then your customers will be willing to share with you some of the value that they're able to realize on the sale of the end product. And so the difference between kind of a standard commodity is something that you see the price trading on an exchange somewhere. And ours is just a chasm of distance between them. Because our products are enabling technology, they're very much application-specific we're selling hundreds of thousands, if not millions of different product to 10s of thousands of customers and millions of different applications around the world.

And if our product doesn't work, that small little thing in the system, then ultimately the system itself doesn't perform for its customers and so it's up to us to develop innovative new technologies on a consistent basis to be able to execute on behalf of our customers, to do that with high-quality, high-reliability with the breadth of products to customers can come to us all-at-once. And if we can do that consistently, then we're able to realize good margins while also controlling the cost on our side and that's another piece of this, which is that at the end-of-the-day, margin is price minus cost and so we have to control the price by selling value to our customers, we have to control the cost by ensuring that every element of cost is controlled and treated as if it was coming out of our own pockets.

And that comes really from the entrepreneurial organization, the 130 general managers around the world who all treat the company's money as if it where their own. And the fact that we don't have cost centers and the company we have a tiny little headquarters. And so that control on cost together with selling value through technology ultimately allows us to realize robust margins on a consistent basis.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Amit Daryanani with Evercore. You may go ahead.

Q - Amit Daryanani{BIO 7113568 <GO>}
Thanks for taking my question. I guess, Adam, I'm hoping you just maybe talk a little bit more about the March quarter guide, you folks are talking about revenue being down double-digit sequentially and I don't want you to repeat all the segment discussion with you sort of talk about two types almost seasonality, just talk about what are the one or two segments you think that are performing worse than what you would expect them to do the normal seasonal environment? And then to the extent this weakness that you see in March, do you think it's more demand weakness as more inventory adjustment by our customers? Thank you.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Thanks so much, Amit. There's a little bit of static on the line, but I think I heard the question well. Look, our guidance that we've given here and I think I talked a lot about by each segment. But let me just put a finer point on this. If you just take two of our end markets and the guidance that I discussed and that's mobile devices and IT datacom, which are two of our largest communications markets.

Those represent about 2/3s collectively of the implied sequential reduction in sales from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. And I think we talked about in IT datacom, that we clearly see a sort of reduction in orders from customers because of elevated inventory levels and there may be some demand layered into that as well as our customer at the end-customers kind of paused their build-outs.

But we shouldn't forget one thing about IT datacom. We shouldn't forget that this is a market, first of all that since 2019, we've grown that market by more than 70% during that time period that our customers have had to increase their output and their construction of their networks in order to satisfy a true explosion of demand for the internet. And I think the underlying drivers of that, whether that be a video over the Internet or the use of certain tools that we didn't ever use before, the data traffic on the internet is not dropping.

I think what we're seeing is maybe a pause and it kind of realignment, because these companies are real gangbusters for a number of years. But the structural increase of data traffic over the Internet in the broader sense, that's something that we believe and I think we're in good company believing that will continue for a long-time to come.

On mobile devices, I think we talked about the fact that during the course of the pandemic, there was a real surge in mobile device demand as people had to detach from their offices and go home, things like tablets, things like computers, upgrades of funds, and the like, let alone the fact that everybody had a lot of disposable income to buy new things and their ears and on wrists and otherwise. And I think there has been some relaxation of demand, that's well reported and you yourself have talked a lot about that in a variety of reports here in 2022.

And regardless of that, our team did a fabulous job this year, driving 5% organic growth in 2022. But we're reacting to the demand that we hear from our customers, we're not losing share, quite the contrary. But the demand expectations of our customers here in the first quarter really result in the guidance that we've given. So I would maybe point to those two markets most particularly, which represent just roughly 2/3s of the sequential decline in our outlook.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Matt Sheerin with Stifel. You may go ahead.

Q - Matt Sheerin{BIO 3966729 <GO>}
Yes. Thanks, good afternoon and Happy New Year, everyone. Adam, it's just a question regarding the industrial markets. In addition to your acquisitions, you've been growing really well organically and there were some concerns of that, if those industrial markets typically lag some of the other markets like consumer and datacom, there's also concerns about inventory build, but it sounds like you're relatively optimistic in terms of the drivers across those diversified market. So any color you can give on your outlook there would be great.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yes, thanks so much, Matt and Happy New Year back to you. Now it look -- our industrial market has been a real bright spot for us over these three years and I just mentioned, our IT datacom since 2019 has grown by 70%, our industrial business has actually grown by more than 90% during that time period and we've added some amazing acquisitions across interconnect and sensors, but we've also driven really strong organic growth. And I think in last year we grew by 13% organically, in '21 we grew by 27% organically. And really on a wide swatch of the industrial market, which is very-very diversified inside it.

Does industrial lag consumer and datacom? I don't have a really good opinion about that. I think they are quite different markets, you have a lot of very different demand drivers. And if you think about what are the underlying drivers of demand in industrial. Well, think about the things that are in the headlines today, things like investments in infrastructure, things like electrification, things like decarbonization, which includes everything from infrastructure to support electrification, which includes things like alternative energy generation, which includes things like natural gas conversion and pipelines and we've actually seen funny enough like strong performance in both our alternative energy business, but also our oil and gas business, both of those are really showing really strong momentum right now.

I wouldn't think that any of those correlates necessarily to a consumer or datacom world. Is there inventory in the supply chain of industrial? I don't have good evidence to say yes or no to that. I'm sure if you looked at a variety of publicly-traded balance sheets, you may see some evidence of and some evidence of not. We do look at our distribution channel and there. I think inventories are healthy, they're not crazy. I mean there may be up a touch or too, but not out of whack to the overall demand environment.

Industrial is going through a true revolution and when you think about everything from electrification to electronification, all the underlying drivers that I talked about. I think we've done a fabulous job and our team in that area has done a fabulous job, both organically as well as identifying and bring into the Amphenol family great companies like CMR this quarter and many others over the last three-four years that put the company in a strong position going-forward.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Samik Chatterjee with JP Morgan. You may go ahead.

Q - Samik Chatterjee{BIO 15496543 <GO>}
Hi Adam, hi Craig. Thanks for taking my question and Happy New Year. I guess the question I had was more on the margins, you had pretty robust margins in the fourth quarter. But as you sort of looking in terms of the end-market outlooks and some of this sub-seasonal sort of trajectory starting off the year. How should we think about the puts and takes on the margin in -- also in relation to some of the acquisitions that you've done recently, what sort of impact on the margin will that have? How resilient these sort of margin levels at this point? Thank you.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Thanks, and Happy New Year to you. I think that if, think about our margin. I mean I think, I'd start off by just saying how proud we are of the margin's performance that we've had in 2022. We really have ultimately -- I mean, throughout 2022 really done, I think, a great job of just expanding our margins, even sequentially converting kind of higher-than-normal conversion with the cost actions, with the pricing actions, we've had to take and thus and really hitting our 21% in Q3, which is a kind of obtaining a record and really 20.9% in Q4 and in 20.7, which matches the records of 2018, so I am really happy, certainly achieving those.

And as we guide here into the first quarter, we're guiding down and then I'd say above seasonal and we talked about that. I'm just talked about that in response to a previous question. And I think if you look at the markets, we've always said that our markets don't really drive kind of our margins and we don't have significant margin differences of a segment range within our markets, except for broadband we've talked about before, which was our old cable business.

But other than that. I think the markets are similar operating margins and drive similar conversion levels. So I wouldn't really talk about that as being a place where it's driving a change in the way our overall conversions would look. We talk about decremental in Canada at close to 30% range. We're kind of seeing even slightly less than that as we're guiding here into the first quarter. And I think that just goes to the management team and how well they have done in regards to responding to some of these areas where we have seen some headwinds from a demand perspective and IT data, which is declining at an above-normal rate typically in the first quarter. They are taking great actions that obviously are reflected in our guide and not impacting our normal conversion in mobile devices that are used to these types of decrementals and headwinds in terms of their first-quarter and certainly they're taking them.

So I think, this is really not a different story than we've had over many years, where we're able to manage regardless of the demand environment. We were able to manage they are operating margins and really do a great job of expanding our margins when we see demand increases, which we've done here in 2022. And then here in Q1, where we see a little bit of headwinds in certain of our markets, taking the actions that really needs to be taken in regards to protecting our bottom-line. And I think that agility of the organization, it's really going to it's just shining through again and I think that's just no different than what we've seen historically and I wouldn't expect any difference in terms of whatever comes here in 2023, and regardless I think I feel really comfortable with how the team will perform.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs. You may go ahead.

Q - Mark Delaney{BIO 17231530 <GO>}
Yes, good afternoon and thank you very much for taking the question. Could you speak to what Amphenol has seen in the China market, both how it's been tracking recently given the COVID dynamics and also whether you are expecting demand in China to pick up materially over the course of this year given reopening?

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yes, thanks very much, Mark. And look, I'm glad you break to bring up China, because I want to just give a real shout-out to our team in China. Q4 in China was a funky quarter. You came in with zero COVID and you left with 100% COVID and that created a lot of challenges operationally. And the fact that we were able not only to deliver on our commitments in the quarter, but to actually exceed our guidance in the quarter. It was just a real testament to our entire global organization. But in particular to our team in China, who just manage through this well, while protecting our people as best you can, in a country where basically everybody got COVID. It was really phenomenal and I'm just so proud of what they were able to do during that time period.

Look, our business in China, we have a great business in China. Our China business is very much a business for the local region, for the customers who want to buy in those regions and we've done such a great job over the years despite geopolitics and all that. Being a truly local company, and this gets to kind of our organization, which I think I've used the term before that, we have an organization that's really purpose-built from whenever the world order is going to be. And that's an organization of people who are made-up of local nationals all over the world, people from India in India people from China in China, people from France in France and that allows us to really tailor our operations to the requirements of that region of the country and we've certainly done that in China over these last several very dynamic years.

In terms of whether we expect a kind of demand rebound in China. I don't know, I think it's a little early to say that. But whatever it comes will come, and I think we're poised and positioned that if there is some rebound, if there is an increase in consumer spending or whatever on whatever kind of products. There's no doubt in my mind that our team will be there to capture more than our fair share, if that should so occur-- I mean they've demonstrated here in the fourth-quarter that nothing can stop them. And I'm very confident that whatever comes along, we'll take full advantage of that. If risks materialize, if some impediments to come along I mean, this is a team that's pretty battle hardened, so I'm pretty confident they'll do a great job.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Steven Fox with Fox Advisors. You may go-ahead.

Q - Steven Fox{BIO 2420985 <GO>}
Hi, good afternoon and Happy New Year. I was just wondering, Adam, if you could talk a little bit more about the business you're acquiring from RFS. It seems like it's a bit of a game changer for you guys in terms of product and how you might be able to compete against some larger players in antennas, et cetera.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yeah, well, thanks so much, Steve and Happy New Year to you as well. Look, we're really excited about this business. I mean, we have a business in fiber optics, we have a business in hybrid cable. We have a business in antennas, but no doubt about it RFS brings us a much, much stronger position from a technology perspective, from a capacity perspective and from a channel into certain markets and we've always been really excited about the mobile networks market and one of the unique things about Amphenol I think I've said this many times is that we sell to the OEMs we're one of the leading interconnect suppliers to the world's leading OEMs who make mobile networks equipment, but we also sell to the service providers into the operators.

And that actually is an evolution of our long-term position with the broadband service providers where we know how to work with service providers, and today we work with service providers in broadband, we work with them in the IT datacom market, we work with them in broadband, I mean in mobile networks. And anywhere, we're now providers are our customers and not just OEMs making equipment and I think RFS really allows us to take a step function growth and the strength of our position there with service providers.

And doing that at a time where we're still I believe in the early innings of the 5G investments in the network let alone what happens when 5G exists for all of our other markets and we're big believers on the kind of structural potential of both the build-out of the 5G networks that are happening around the world as well as what it means to have low latency ultra-high bandwidth ubiquitous data traffic for all of our end markets. And after 5G will come 6G and then they will come, 7G and -- you and I will probably still be floating around, when we're talking about 10G, one day Steve, but now we're really excited about RFS and look-forward to them. Look-forward to getting through the regulatory process and again, we expect to close it at the end-of-the second-quarter and industry-- it's not in our guide here in the first-quarter, but it is certainly in our long-term strategy.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Jim Suva with Citigroup. You may go-ahead.

Q - Jim Suva{BIO 6329522 <GO>}
Hi, Adam, you and your team have been through many similar cycles and I wanted to focus a little bit on the Communications commentary you gave, about a little bit of inventory digestion or some pauses or things like that Just curious in past cycles have you seen into last kind of one to two quarters or multiple-- multiple quarters from when you sit there, it seems like this is one segment that is taking a little bit of a downshift not that structurally you're losing share restricted in a problems with a bit more of a cyclical nature. If I understand your comments correctly. Thank you.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Well, thanks so much, Jim. I would love to be able to extrapolate from sort of past experienced to today. But, I would tell you that I don't know that at least in my history, which is by the way 25 years this year in the company to live through a time period like we've just gone through in the last three years and what that has done to the dynamics of the market from a pandemic to a supply-chain crisis to an explosion of data, traffic that came out-of-the pandemic and shutdowns and work-from-home and all those various things. The transformation of how people consume entertainment and media and information.

So, I don't know that there is a good template, for a kind of what has happened in the IT datacom market over the last three years, and thus-- it would be hard for me to say, do I expect this to be a one quarter, two quarter whatever kind of an adjustment, and thus we don't run our business that way. The fact is-- it is what it is right now and we adjust in Real-time our resources to accommodate the level of demand that we see from each of our operations. We have 131 operations around the world right now, roughly, and each of them have their own set of customers, some of whom have demand that is growing and others of whom and that includes those who work-in this market, where maybe demand is moderating somewhat.

They don't make a guess and say well, is that going to be a one, two, three quarter thing and thus, what should I do they just say my customer needs as much and I'm going to go out and adjust my resources in Real-time. And that Real-time reactivity and agility that Craig mentioned earlier, which by the way was reflected in our margins in the fourth-quarter and is also reflected in our margin in the first-quarter. That's how we run the business, We react to whatever the demand environment is and we're not going to try to trip over, so I was trying to guess how long it is.

But what I know is this, long-term the demand for data, the demand for our products, leading-edge, high-speed, fiber-optic power products, that's going to be a very robust demand long-term, and so we will come through this adjustment that our customers are going through, and we will come out of it a stronger company than ever and we will continue to have a very robust that technology position in the future.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Luke Junk with Baird. You may go-ahead.

Q - Luke Junk{BIO 19778179 <GO>}
Hi, good afternoon, thanks for taking question and Happy New year from me as well. Adam your other businesses outgrown underlying production now by an extremely strong level each of the past two years, and I know it's always hard to parse out, but do you get the sense that channel inventory of your products has influenced our growth at all. And maybe just more importantly as you look-forward, what do you see as the key factors plus or minus versus history that could influence your ability to grow strongly above market again in 2023. Thank you.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Well, thanks, Luke to you and Happy New Year as well. Luke you said it, I mean, we have definitely outperformed in the automotive market for a pretty long-time period you're quite a number of quarters. And I'm just really proud of our team. No, they weren't always easy years. I mean, clearly, 2020 was a tough year even 2019 was a challenging year, but we never kind of throw in the towel during that time period. We never said let's go cut-back on new product investment there, let's reorganize quite the contrary. In fact, we continue to work with customers around the world on next-generation applications.

And those next-generation applications everything from passenger connectivity and power applications to high voltage applications in the car to Communications around antennas and the like. We are now really-- realizing the benefits of that over the last couple of years. And In terms of the channel we don't really see the channel and the inventory in the channel is being a big driver of the demand. I think the driver the demand has been the rapid adoption of new electronic systems in particular electrification of cars, but not exclusively electrification.

And so when I think about the key factors that can be plus or minus in the future. well sure, at some level, the number of cars being sold matters, but more importantly is the content of electronics and the content of new systems in those cars in the future and if that content continues to move up into the right and if we continue to do a pretty decent job of getting some or more than our fair share of that then I think there is good potential for our automotive business in the long-term. I would not get-out in front of my skis here and tell you that 29% organic growth is going to be our perpetuity or 41% that we achieved in 2021, but we're very confident in our in the strength of our position.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Will Stein with Truist Securities. You may go-ahead.

Q - William Stein{BIO 15106707 <GO>}
Great, thanks. I'd love to hear about how the backlog changed during the quarter, and in particular, the duration of the backlog and Perhaps it relates to lead times, somewhat whether you're seeing customers. Still place order is orders in excess of lead times the degree that has been a pattern. Thank you.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Thanks so much, Will. I mean, look, we obviously had in the fourth-quarter a lower book-to-bill at 0.89, but I would just point out that over the course of this year, we still have a positive book-to-bill of 102 and if you look over the last two years. We've actually booked in the last two years, $25 billion in orders and we've shipped $23.5 billion in sales. So we've added $1.5 billion to our backlog during that time. And we have today, it's still a very robust backlog. I think we talked about last quarter that we probably saw about a three-week, expansion of our backlog and I think we're probably still roughly in that ballpark right now, somewhere around a three-week or so, beyond what maybe it was in the past and when I say the past like 2020 and maybe year-end and that's a really strong position.

At the same time, there is no doubt about it that the kind of acute phase of the supply-chain crisis and the kind of multiplicity of pressures that was put on our customers across really all of our markets. I think we're beyond the acute phase of that supply-chain crisis, but I'm not going to tell you like it's totally in the review mirror, like there's still little things that people have to deal with.

But I would not be surprised if our customers kind of normalize a little bit more their lead times across the board and one of the things that happened during the course of the pandemic in the supply-chain crisis that came thereafter is we were doing a great job I mean, we support our customers through the time we did not meaningfully have to extend our lead times, but customers were sort of taking a one-size-fits-all approach in several of the markets and that led I think them to certainly in the communications market to maybe end-up ordering a little bit more than they were going to do.

I would also point one other thing out here just in the fourth quarter you know with our relatively low book-to-bill compared to historical levels actually that was really concentrated in our communications markets. And we saw a book-to-bill outside of the communications markets, which was basically one-to-one in the fourth quarter which also gives us some confidence that there's still robust demand for our products, but I don't think in terms of the normalization, I would expect some normalization you know that whole cliche of just-in-time versus just-in-case may be customers long-term. We'll have a little bit more order windows, but. I think we sit in a really good position here.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Chris Snyder with UBS. You may go ahead.

Q - Chris Snyder{BIO 21962027 <GO>}
Thank you. So the company has taken a lot of shares coming out-of-the pandemic. And there was a heightened focus on resiliency and connectivity from the customer base, again coming out-of-the pandemic. I'd just be interested to hear how you think about those two drivers as the macro seemingly will normalize here at some point. Thank.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yeah, thanks very much, Chris. I mean look resiliency connectivity. I think there's been a lot of things that have shifted. We've just been through a once-in-several-generation pandemic. Hopefully, we are sort of at the tail-end of it. I know our team in China is certainly hope that in the fourth quarter. But. I think it has changed every day, it's touched everything. Let me say that whether it's dramatically changed everything, but no doubt, resiliency, and ability of a company to be there for its customers, regardless of what comes along that is definitely more in the consideration of our customers than ever before and that plays very well into our approach, our approach has never been to put all our eggs in one basket to build these massive campuses.

We have 250 facilities around the world some people think we're crazy to have that many factories, but part of it is a risk, part of it is have making sure that we're close to our customers and we're not putting all our eggs in one basket. And we have a pretty fragmented manufacturing footprint all over the world with low-cost operations in all three of the major regions and continents. And I'll tell you that enabled us during this time period to take share from maybe some of our competitors who either smaller and more concentrated and thus stricken by these kinds of unpredictable impediments that came along during the pandemic and the supply-chain crisis.

And relative to the connectivity and I'm going to sort of-- but little stab on what your implication is there I mean, communications, the Internet, the ability to stay in touch with people that has clearly been a dramatic shift in this pandemic. And we look at all our position in our communications markets and the phenomenal growth that we've had, I mentioned the IT datacom market for us, growing 70% during that time period, but also mobile devices grew by nearly 25% over the same three years and that's just a reflection of this kind of now insatiable demand for people to have a multitude of ways of communicating and connecting with each other, and that's something as we seek to sort of enable the electronics revolution that's the phrase I always use, there's no doubt about it that we're living in revolutionary times and that creates a real structural and long-term opportunity for Amphenol.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America. You may go ahead.

Q - Wamsi Mohan{BIO 15994435 <GO>}
Thank you. Hey, Adam, notwithstanding the comments you made on IT datacom earlier that might also have mobile devices, you specifically called out Mobile devices kind of mean reverting from abnormal driven levels. So does that imply we should expect sub-seasonal growth for 2023 and more broadly is visibility maybe ex-mobile devices, beginning to improve at all-in your markets?

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Thanks very much, Wamsi. I am not going to get out in front of my skis. I'm trying to give an estimate of what mobile device demand is going to look like this year you know well embedded guiding it even for the seven years so days that we tried to give guidance in the quarter, let alone to make some estimate of what it's going to look like in the course of the year. It's hard for me to do that, what I do know is, there's a lot of new devices, they're wonderful I'm addicted to mine, and we have a strong position and so I don't take a position otherwise, on whether mobile devices is going to have a worse or better performance seasonally going through the rest of this year.

I mean, we tried to give some guidance here in the first quarter. We'll see what happens there and then we'll try to give some guidance on the second quarter and 90 days from now. Relative to visibility in general look, it's still a fairly uncertain world and so. I don't know that there is a dramatic improvement in visibility. I mean, we're not giving full-year guidance, we don't think it's prudent at this time, because there is still a lot of dynamism, a lot of uncertainty in the world today.

And so we'll see, I mean, I certainly hope that as we passed the three-year mark on the anniversary. I think it's actually three years from day after tomorrow that Wuhan was shut-down, remember it very very well, and you hope that after three years re-normalize. There's a saying in Chinese that a pandemic doesn't last more than three years, the famous old saying that. I think very old thing in Chinese and hopefully, that is really the case and there can be a little bit more normalization, but. I think there's still lot of uncertainty in the world today.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from David Kelley with Jefferies. You may go ahead.

Q - David Kelley{BIO 18960446 <GO>}
Hey, good afternoon. Adam and Craig, maybe a question on the input cost environment we've seen certain commodities pull back in certain areas, energy and labor costs remain elevated. And then maybe pricing pass-throughs might get tougher in 2023, but if we take a step back, can you just talk about the Amphenol cost opportunities in 2023?

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yeah, no. Thank you, David, and good afternoon as well. I think certainly the cost environment is in some ways a little bit different than it probably was as we kind of entered the year here. I think there are certain places where it has improved, there's other places, honestly, we're probably hasn't improved, but I mean, certainly, on certain commodities, we've seen some level of relief in certain parts of the business without a doubt. But places like energy places like labor certainly, logistics has gotten a little better, but I would say, energy and labor is certainly very so continues to be a headwind and in many places.

So I'd say on balance, it's probably has made some improvements from a commodity perspective. I think that what does that mean from a cost perspective, in 2023, it's tough to tell our margin perspective. I mean there's no doubt that in a normal environment, you would expect some pricing headwinds from your customers and you know and whether or not they will start in certain places to try to come back for pricing was certainly do our best to-- as we you always do to as we add value to our customers to ensure that we're keeping that's fair margin.

But as costs come down, I would expect in some places for pricing to have some headwind, but. I would expect that ultimately a balance that happen where we were able to protect our margins and continue to have strong margins. It really wouldn't--I wouldn't think change for our profitability perspective. And in a normal environment. Prior to the pandemic when or when inflation was kind of at a normal pace and in the demand environment was normal, you did have that kind of normal balance and I expect that ultimately over time we'll see that again in and whether or not that happens in '23 and that's a little bit too early to predict, but I think we are in a better place both on the price and a cost perspective than we certainly were a year-ago.

Operator
Thank you. Our last question is from Michael Anastasio with Cowen. You may go ahead.

Q - Michael Anastasio{BIO 17571447 <GO>}
Happy New Year. Thanks for taking my question. Could you just quantify the impact of price and 2022 overall. There's any areas that we're strong in particular. And what are your expectations for the upcoming year.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Yeah, as can I was saying before I mean, certainly, we did have some pricing kind of momentum in 2022, Honestly I couldn't even tell you what exactly the impact of price was on our top line, we don't -- fortunately, our systems aren't capable of even providing that information. Let's say it's somewhere kind of maybe low-single digits, but it's a very difficult thing to even have to provide so and honestly, it really wouldn't provide us with any help in regards to how we run our business. So it's not something we're necessarily focused on, but certainly, there was some pricing in 2022, we've talked about that and without a doubt there was.

I mean, again, as I mentioned before in a normal environment, pricing would be I would say more of a headwind and a tailwind in '22 is a slight tailwind. I would say, and I know it's tough to say whether it will be in 2023 is as the cost environment may be leveled off a bit, but ultimately, whatever it is I know, I'm really not so concerned. I think that the team has continued to do a great job of managing, costs managing price and ultimately ensuring at the end-of-the day we're getting paid-for the value we provide to our customers.

Operator
Thank you. And there are no further questions. I will turn the call back to Mr. Norwitt for closing remarks.

A - R. Adam Norwitt{BIO 18754623 <GO>}
Well, thank you so much and again we'd like -- Craig and I would like to on behalf of our entire team around the world, express our gratitude to each of you for the confidence you've put in us and we wish you all the best and look-forward to speaking with you just a short 90 days from now. Thank you, everybody. Happy New Year, again and stay safe.

A - Craig A. Lampo{BIO 7286361 <GO>}
Thank you. Bye bye.

Operator
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.