Q4 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Emmanuel Babeau
Emmanuel Babeau
5/2020-PRESENT | Philip Morris Intl Inc, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
4/2020-5/2020 | Schneider Electric SE, DEPUTY CEO
6/2014-4/2020 | Schneider Electric SE, DEPUTY CEO/CFO
, CFO
Jacek Olczak, Chief Executive Officer
Nick Rolli, Vice President
Other Participants
Bonnie Herzog, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Chris Growe, Stifel
Gaurav Jain, `, Barclays
Gerard DiMeo, JP Morgan
Pamela Kaufman, Morgan Stanley
Vivien Azer, Analyst, Cowen
Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2021 Year End Earnings Conference Call. Todays call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International Management and the Question and answer session. In order to ask a question please press the star key followed by the number one (Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will be also invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Nick Rolli, Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications. Please go ahead, sir.

Nick Rolli{BIO 13380104 <GO>}
Welcome and thank you for joining us. Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2021 fourth quarter and full year results. You may access the release on www.pmi.com. A glossary of terms, including the definition for reduced risk products or RRPs, as well as adjustments, other calculations and reconciliations to the most directly comparable US GAAP measures and additional heated tobacco unit market share data are at the end of today's webcast slides, which are posted on our website. Unless otherwise stated, all references to IQOS are to our IQOS heat-not-burn products. All references to smoke-free products are to our RRPs.

Growth rates presented on an organic basis reflect currency neutral underlying results. Following the acquisitions of Fertin Pharma, OtiTopic and Vectura Group, PMI added the other category in the third quarter of 2021. Business operations for the other category are evaluated separately from the geographical operating segments.

Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results, I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release. For a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements. Please also note the additional forward-looking and cautionary statements related to COVID-19.

It's now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak, our Chief Executive Officer and Emmanuel Babeau, our Chief Financial Officer. Over to you Jacek.

Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Thank you, Nick and welcome everyone. I hope you all are safe and well. Our business delivered an excellent performance in 2021 reaching correct net revenues, adjusted diluted EPS and cash flow with growth in overall volumes, high single digit organic net revenue growth and strong double digit, adjusted EPS growth. This illustrates the sustainable nature of our growth based on new products and innovation as demonstrated by continued strength of IQOS, which delivered 31% full-year organic growth in RRP net revenue. Smoke free products surpassed 30% of total net revenues in Q4 as we progress towards our ambition of becoming a predominantly smoke free company by 2025.

We are especially pleased by the re-acceleration of our business in Q4 to deliver a better than better-than-expected result. This re-acceleration was visible in organic net revenues, IQOS user growth, heated tobacco unit market across developed emerging markets, innovation in devices and consumables and commercial investments and combustible market share.

IQOS user growth recovered in Q4 to reach an estimated 21.2 million total users, despite ongoing tightness in device supplies in the second half of the year. Full year Heated tobacco unit shipment volumes grew 25% to reach 95 billion units, with broad-based growth for both our volumes and the category across key geographies, with an especially positive rebound in the EU.

The growth outlook for IQOS remains very positive, with outstanding initial results from IQOS ILUMA in Japan and Switzerland, the only two launches so far, and growing traction for IQOS VEEV in early launch markets. In combustibles, we essentially reached our goal of stable category share in the fourth quarter despite the impact of IQOS cannibalization.

During the year, we laid the foundations for our long-term growth ambitions beyond nicotine in Wellness and Healthcare, including the milestone acquisitions of Fertin and Vectura, which provide essential capabilities for future product development. And last, bolstered by strong operating cash flow, we continued to prioritize returns to shareholders through a 4.2% increase in the dividend and ongoing share repurchases.

Turning to the headline numbers, our full year adjusted net revenues grew organically by 7.6%, or 10.3% in dollar terms including positive currency. This reflects the continued underlying strength of IQOS, and the ongoing recovery of the combustible business in many markets compared to the pandemic- affected prior year.

Our net revenue per unit grew 5.3% organically, driven by the increasing proportion of IQOS in our sales mix, and pricing. Combustible pricing was in line with our expectations at 2.7%, or around 4% excluding Indonesia.

Our adjusted operating income margin increased by 200 basis points on an organic basis - in line with our expectations - with continued positive effects from the increasing size and profitability of IQOS, pricing, and productivity savings. Strong H1 expansion was tempered in the second half by the expected initial higher unit costs of IQOS ILUMA, geographic and category expansion investments, and the Q4 resumption of consumer programs in a number of markets.

Our resulting adjusted diluted EPS of $6.08 represents 17.6% growth in dollar terms and 15.3% currency-neutral growth, which is well above our prior guidance as IQOS user growth, the launch of ILUMA and total industry volumes exceeded our expectations. Finally, we generated operating cash flow of $12 billion, reflecting excellent underlying cash conversion in addition to strong Q4 business results and certain timing factors.

Looking at our Q4 performance, net revenues grew by 8.4% organically. This reflects the sequential improvement in IQOS user acquisition, the initial success of ILUMA in Japan, and strong overall volumes including a further recovery in combustibles. We delivered robust organic net revenue per unit growth of 4.1%, again reflecting our shifting business mix. We achieved this despite softer pricing on combustibles of 1.4%, due to the factors flagged previously of continued pandemic-related challenges in certain markets, as well as comparison effects in Germany and Australia.

Our Q4 adjusted operating income margin declined by 10 basis points on an organic basis, primarily due to the same factors mentioned for the second half as accelerating business performance opened more opportunities for investments in future growth. Despite that, our currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS again grew strongly by 11.9%, also reflecting a lower interest cost and effective tax rate.

Turning now to 2022 guidance. After the temporary slowdown in IQOS user growth in the second half of 2021 the device supply situation is improving. While the situation remains fluid we now expect a more limited impact, allowing us to gradually return to prior rates of user progression over the coming quarters. With the remarkable success of ILUMA in its first markets, a number of other innovations planned, and promising growth for IQOS in low and middle-income markets, our 2022 growth fundamentals are strong and we look forward to an exciting year.

We note that the slower user growth in the second half of 2021, particularly in the third quarter, will have an estimated carry-over effect on our growth this year of around 4-5 billion heated tobacco units. This is reflected in our 2022 expectation of 113-118 billion HTU shipment volumes given this continued growth, we expect our full year HTU shipments to again be ahead of IMS volumes.

We expect to deliver between 4% and 6% organic net revenue growth, keeping us well on track to deliver our 2021-23 Compound annual growth rate target of more than 5%. This range prudently incorporates the continuing uncertainty on full device availability, and the pace of the ongoing pandemic recovery. For Duty Free, we assume no meaningful pick-up in Asian travel but a continued gradual recovery in other geographies.

We expect our adjusted Operating Income margin to expand between 50 and 150 basis points, as the positive effects of our product transformation continue; despite the expectation of a moderately lower gross margin. This is essentially attributable to temporary ILUMA-related factors such as the higher initial weight and cost of TEREA consumables and the cost of devices, which we expect to decrease over the 18-24 months post-launch as we have experienced with previous major innovations. We also account for higher logistic costs, where the tremendous uptake of ILUMA in Japan has led to increased use of air freight; investments to grow capacity across our smoke-free platforms; and inflation in certain supply chain elements.

Operating Income margin expansion and continued reinvestment in attractive smoke-free growth opportunities, and in wellness and healthcare R and D, will again be supported by our ongoing efficiency programs. We remain on track to deliver around $2 billion in gross savings by 2023.

Accordingly, we forecast currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS growth of 8% to 11%. This translates into an adjusted diluted EPS range of $6.12-$6.30, including an estimated unfavorable currency impact of around 45 cents at prevailing rates. This is primarily due to translation effects. This currency impact notably reflects the depreciation of the Euro, Japanese Yen and Turkish Lira versus the dollar.

This guidance includes the impact of the $785 million of share repurchases made in 2021, which were somewhat restricted by blackout periods. It does not reflect the impact of repurchases in 2022, as we continue to take an opportunistic approach within our target of between $5 to $7 billion over 3 years. Our guidance also reflects the impact of acquired businesses which we expect to generate underlying operating income in line with our business plan, but with an operating loss of around $150 million, or approximately 1% of adjusted diluted EPS, which we will come back to explain later.

As outlined in today's release, there are a number of other assumptions underpinning our outlook. We expect the total industry volume of cigarettes and heated tobacco units, excluding the U.S. and China, to decline between -1% and -2%. Given our leadership in smoke-free products, the structural growth of the category and its growing proportion in our business, we expect to gain share and target broadly stable total PMI shipment volumes, within a range of -1% and +1%.

We assume full year combustible pricing of 3% to 4%, with a softer first half and stronger second half, clearly above 2021 levels. The pricing environment is improving, but still challenged in certain markets due to ongoing pandemic-related impacts.

Our balance sheet is strong. We delivered excellent operating cash flow of $12 billion in 2021, reflecting robust underlying cash conversion, in addition to favorable timing and one-off impacts of around $0.5 billion. With further strong organic profit growth expected in 2022, we expect to generate around $11 billion of operating cash flow subject to year-end working capital requirements and after accounting for the reversal of timing benefits and using prevailing exchange rates. As a result we raise our 2021-23 operating cash flow target, communicated at the February 2021 investor day at then- prevailing rates, from around $35 billion to $36-37 billion. We also expect full- year capital expenditures of around $1 billion, reflecting increased capacity investments behind our smoke-free platforms, including ILUMA, and enhancing our digital commercial engine; in addition to certain projects which were delayed due to the pandemic.

Lastly, looking specifically to the first quarter of 2022 we expect adjusted diluted EPS of $1.50 to $1.55, including 15 cents of unfavorable currency at prevailing rates. We expect robust organic top-line growth; and operating margin comparisons which reflect both the very strong prior year quarter - which benefited from a high level of productivity savings and relatively low levels of investment - and the Q1 of 2022 dynamics of increased device sales, commercial investments, ILUMA-related costs, and increases in some inputs, such as freight.

Let me hand over now to Emmanuel, who will give you more details of our performance in 2021.

Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Thank you, Jacek. Turning back to our 2021 results, total shipment volumes increased by +4.2% in Q4, and by +2.2% for the year. This reflects continued strong broad-based growth from HTUs of 25%, or 18.9 billion units for the full year - comfortably exceeding the decline of 3.6 billion cigarettes.

The +2.4% increase in our Q4 cigarette volumes reflects the continued sequential recovery of the total industry and of our category share, in addition

To a 2.7 billion stick favorable inventory movement, which mainly reflects inventory reductions in the prior year quarter. Due to the remarkable performance of IQOS, heated tobacco units comprised almost 14% of our total shipment volume in the fourth quarter and 13.2% for the year, as compared to 11% in full year 2020, 8% in 2019 and 5% in 2018.

Our sales mix is evolving rapidly, putting us on track to become a majority smoke-free company by 2025. Smoke-free net revenues made up over 30% of our adjusted total in Q4 and 29% for the year, as compared to 24% in 2020. In 10 markets we have already surpassed 50%. IQOS devices accounted for over 6% of the $9.1 billion of 2021 RRP net revenues, with a step-up in H2 reflecting the IQOS ILUMA launch; outweighing the effect of supply constraints on other IQOS versions.

We delivered +7.6% organic growth in 2021 net revenues, on shipment volume growth of +2.2%, reflecting the twin engines driving our top line. The first is pricing on combustibles and, in certain markets, on HTUs. The second is the increasing mix of HTUs in our business at higher net revenue per unit, which continues to deliver substantial growth; an increasingly powerful driver as our transformation accelerates.

Let's now turn to the driver of our 2021 margin expansion. Our gross margin increased by 190 basis points on an organic basis due to product mix, pricing and cost savings, while our adjusted marketing, administration and research costs were 10 basis points better as a percentage of adjusted net revenues.

We generated over $800 million in gross cost savings in 2021, with around $550 million in manufacturing and supply chain productivities; and more than $250 million in SG and A efficiencies, before inflation. This represents strong progress towards our target of around $2 billion for 2021-23, and allows us to reinvest in top-line growth while continuing to deliver robust margin progression.

While OI margin expansion was lower in H2, this reflects the positive dynamics of our business and the ability to return to normalized investment

Levels compared to the pandemic-affected prior year. ILUMA device and HTU shipments commenced with higher initial unit costs, and we reaccelerated investment in our commercial programs, digital engine and R and D, as well as a number of growth opportunities across categories and geographies. We intend to continue investing in such opportunities in 2022, but with the benefits of scale, operating leverage and accelerated efficiencies we continue to target organic SG and A increases below the rate of sales growth.

Moving to market share, our share of the combustible category recovered and was essentially stable in Q4 on a year-over-year basis as our portfolio

Initiatives bear fruit and pandemic-linked restrictions recede in many markets. Our leadership in combustibles helps to maximize switching to smoke-free products, and we continue to target a stable category share over time despite the impact of IQOS cannibalization. As IQOS user growth reaccelerates, we target at worst a slight decline in 2022.

For the combustible category overall, the improving total market volume backdrop includes notable Q4 recoveries in Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey;

Close to stable industry volumes in the EU Region, and a modest recovery in Duty Free driven by sales outside Asia. Daily consumption remains below preCOVID levels in certain markets, such as the Philippines, where our share of market is influenced by mobility and social consumption.

In Indonesia, our share was again broadly stable on a sequential basis, despite the continued growth of the below-tier one segment, and our volumes grew over 4% for the year. The reduction from 10 to 8 excise tax tiers in 2022 represents a step in the right direction, and the industry weighted average excise increase of around 13% is slightly below the prior year. However, the playing field remains unequal between industry players, and the pricing environment remains challenging.

In terms of our overall share, ongoing gains for our IQOS portfolio create positive momentum going into this year, and we expect to resume overall

Share growth, as well as achieving broadly stable total shipment volumes. PMI HTUs now have a 7.1% share in the markets where they are present, making them the third largest tobacco 'brand'. This includes the number 1 position in 5 markets and the number 2 in a further 6 markets.

Moving now to IQOS performance, we estimate there were approximately 21.2 million IQOS users as of December 31. The improved user growth of 0.8 million in Q4 reflects our agile commercial model which allowed us to rapidly adjust our consumer programs and assortments. As demonstrated by the performance of ILUMA in Japan and Switzerland, the underlying momentum of the IQOS brand remains strong. While we don't yet have full visibility over the full year of 2022, as device shortages ease, we expect to gradually return to user growth at or above the prior run rate of around 1 million per quarter. We estimate that 72% of total users or 15.3 million adult smokers have switched to IQOS and stopped smoking, with the balance in various stages of conversion.

In the EU Region, fourth-quarter HTU share reached 6.4% of total cigarette and HTU industry volume, 1.4 points higher than Q4 last year. Underlying IMS growth trends remained excellent. This very good performance includes strong growth across the region, with Italy reaching the milestone of 2 million users, and positive contributions from Germany and Poland. I also want to highlight Hungary where our Q4 national HTU share exceeded 20%, following Japan and Lithuania in reaching this important threshold.

To give some further color on our progress in the EU Region, this slide shows a selection of the latest key city offtake shares. While Vilnius continues to lead the way with 37.5% share, the 20% level was also reached in Budapest, Rome and Athens. With strong progress across the region, we are especially pleased by Vienna almost doubling to 4%, the strong traction in London at almost 6% share, and an acceleration in Zurich with the introduction of IQOS ILUMA. We show further HTU share data in the appendix to these slides.

Share growth continued in Russia, with our Q4 HTU share up by +0.8 points to reach 8.0%. For both Russia and the overall region, sequential growth in adjusted IMS slowed in the last two quarters, partly reflecting the more acute device shortages and limits on commercial programs. In addition, the region was affected by the halting of sales in Belarus, which impacted sequential IMS growth in Q4. In this context, as mentioned last quarter, we have seen some increased consumer trial in Russia of discounted competitor offerings and disposable e-vapor products. We continue to see high interest in the category, and with a pipeline of exciting innovations planned, including the launch of ILUMA, we aim to resume strong growth this year.

In Japan now, the adjusted total tobacco share for our HTU brands increased by 1.7 points to a record 21.8% in Q4, and an offtake exit share approaching 23%, with Q4 adjusted IMS sequential trends incorporating the pull-forward of consumer offtake into Q3 before the price increase. This performance reflects the strength of our portfolio and the launch of IQOS ILUMA, which I will come back to shortly.

The overall heated tobacco category continues to grow, making up over 31% of the adjusted total Japanese tobacco market in Q4; with IQOS maintaining a high share of segment and capturing the majority of the category's 2021 growth. In addition to strong progress in developed countries, we see very promising IQOS growth in low and middle income markets. A prime example of this is Egypt, where offtake share in Cairo is approaching 4% within 6 months of launch, with other notable successes including Lebanon, Jordan, the Dominican Republic and the Philippines, despite pandemic restrictions in Manila.

This low and middle income market key city performance is especially encouraging as we achieved it despite the premium position of the current

IQOS portfolio. We intend to bring a new complementary range of heat-not-burn products tailored to emerging markets towards the end of this year,

Which I will come back to.

With this potential in mind, we continue to drive the geographic expansion of our smoke-free products as we aim to be in 100 markets by 2025. During the quarter we launched IQOS in both Morocco and Tunisia. This takes the total number of markets where PMI smoke-free products are available for sale to 71, of which 30 are in low and middle-income markets. We plan to add more markets this year, as we also meaningfully broaden our product offer and price segmentation within existing geographies. This includes the expansion of LIL and Fiit, which are now available in over 20

Markets across multiple regions, and our expansion of e-vapor and nicotine pouches. Following the implementation of the ITCs importation ban, IQOS is not currently available in the US. We continue to work on contingency plans, including domestic manufacturing, and hope to be able to resume US supply in the first half of 2023. It is important to remember that the ITCs decision on these patents is an outlier. We were encouraged by the US Patent Offices recent invalidation of one of the two patents included in the ITC ruling, and we expect a decision on the second patent by April 2 though these decisions are subject to an appeal process. BAT has been universally unsuccessful in asserting these same two patent families against IQOS in Europe. Separately, in December, a German court ruled that BATs GLO HYPER dual-coil heat-not-burn device infringes our patent and that we are entitled, among other things, to an injunction against BATs sale of the device.

Moving now to IQOS ILUMA, we are delighted to report the outstanding success since its launch in Japan and Switzerland, with sales performance and consumer reactions exceeding our expectations. In Japan, the uptake of ILUMA devices and consumables among both existing IQOS users and legal-age smokers has been rapid, with more than 20% of the large user base switching since the August launch, and over 20% of sales to legal-age smokers new to IQOS. Moreover, the enhanced and consistently high quality user experience, better reliability and no need for cleaning has led to significant observed increases in conversion rates, retention rates and Net Promoter Score. This bodes well for volume growth, and indeed premium priced TEREA consumables have been the fastest growing launch in the smoke-free category, reaching an offtake share in the 3 main convenience store chains of 8% within 3 months of national launch and driving the growth of the heat-not-burn category following the October tax-driven price increase.

Early results in Switzerland have been even more remarkable, with over one third of sales to new users, and TEREA making up over one-third of HTU sales after only 2 months of commercialization. Our HTU share growth has accelerated accordingly from 6.0% in September to 7.9% in December.

These results are very encouraging for the wider roll-out of ILUMA in the EU Region and around the world, and we plan to roll out gradually to more markets this year, mostly in H2. While we continue to manage device supply constraints, the unprecedented growth in Japan also means we have had to accelerate both the supply of TEREA consumables using air freight, and the conversion of our production lines to support new market launches.

With ILUMA, IQOS 3 DUO and LIL, we now have 3 heat-not-burn technologies under the IQOS umbrella to serve different consumer needs and segment the market. We have an exciting pipeline of innovation on devices and consumables across our technologies at different price tiers. As I mentioned we also plan to enhance our portfolio for future growth with the introduction of a new complementary technology toward the end of this year. This will be targeted at smokers in low-and-middle income markets, catering to the consumer need of simple, high quality, affordable devices and consumables and specific local taste preferences.

In terms of HTUs, after launching over 50 new non-ILUMA SKUs in Q4, we plan to continue expanding our portfolio across platforms, geographies and price points this year. We continue to commercialize IQOS VEEV with very promising results in the first group of markets, where we started in our own channels with a limited range of taste variants and nicotine levels. IQOS VEEV is a premium product providing a superior experience, and the commercial infrastructure of IQOS allows us to deploy efficiently and at scale through a bespoke route-to-market approach. As we start to expand distribution and the consumable offering we observe signs of increased uptake, and clear positive consumer feedback relative to competitive products. We see encouraging success in Italy and the Czech Republic, reaching double-digit offtake shares of closed-system pods with rapid progress also visible in Croatia within 3 months of launch. After launching in Canada and Ukraine in the fourth quarter we plan to add more markets in 2022, with timing subject to device availability. We also continue preparations to apply for a PMTA from the U.S. FDA, and now prudently assume readiness for filing in early 2023 given further clarity on the required preparatory steps.

An additional exciting mid-term growth opportunity is in the nicotine pouch category, where we aim to become a leading player with the Shiro brand. Nicotine pouches provide a convenient smoke-free alternative for adult smokers, and while still early in many markets we see Shiro playing an important role in our smoke-free portfolio over the coming years. Following the acquisitions of AG Snus and Fertin Pharma, we have established a base of product development and manufacturing expertise. Although we are still learning about this promising category, our IQOS commercial infrastructure allows for a fast roll-out and we plan a number of launches over the coming quarters. The first major activity is the full re-launch of the revitalized Shiro portfolio in the Nordics this month from its more limited prior presence, with full commercial activity and a broad portfolio of flavors and strength variants.

Separately, following feedback from the 2021 consumer test of our platform 2 carbon tip product, the design of our current technology has been discontinued. We are assessing alternative designs for this consumer segment.

Turning now to our nascent business beyond nicotine, the 2021 acquisitions of Fertin, Vectura and Otitopic provide a base for building critical respiratory and oral product development capabilities, in tandem with our existing expertise. This opens up opportunities to deliver the positive effects of existing Wellness and Healthcare molecules in a fast and effective manner. For the time being, our reported numbers in the Other segment show the existing acquired businesses which delivered $101 million in net revenues in the fourth quarter and a marginal operating loss of $1 million. The underlying performance is in line with our expectations, with reported operating expenses reflecting the amortization of intangibles, deal-related items and our planned investments. Around 39% of Q4 revenues were derived from Fertins smoking cessation product and Nicotine pouch operations.

While we intend to continue the CDMO activities of the acquired companies, the most significant value to PMI is in the ability to develop and commercialize new products in the wellness and healthcare segments over time. We plan important R&D investments over the course of the coming years to support the aim of delivering meaningful incremental revenues starting 2-3 years from now, as we pursue our ambition of at least $1 billion of net revenues from Wellness and Healthcare products by 2025. As I mentioned earlier, we expect an operating loss of around $150 million in 2022, with revenues of around $350 million, including smoking cessation products. We recognize investor interest in our future product plans in these new areas, and plan to provide more color in our CAGNY conference presentation on February 23.

Moving to sustainability and our ESG priorities, I am happy to share that we recently completed a new sustainability materiality assessment to update and recalibrate our priorities in accordance with our biggest impacts on society, double materiality and extensive stakeholder input. While addressing the health impact of our products remains by far the biggest focus, we also identified a number of topics which are emerging in importance or require an evolved approach. We will publish the results next week.

It is increasingly important to align management incentives with sustainability materiality, performance and impact. We will strengthen this link in 2022 with a new sustainability index, and plan to provide more details in the near future.

Our progress on sustainability continues to be recognized leading external stakeholders, with repeated inclusion in both the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America and the Bloomberg Gender-Equality index, and receiving CDPs Triple A score for the second year running. We also published an Agricultural Labor Practices report, marking 10 years of the program. Since its introduction we have successfully eradicated systemic issues related to child labor, while improving living conditions of farmers and farmworkers. It also outlines our ambitious targets, such as 100% of farmers supplying tobacco to PMI making a living income by 2025.

On our most critical priority of product impact, the growing penetration of smoke-free products around the world is accelerating the end of cigarettes, as legal-age smokers switch to better alternatives. I am also pleased to report further recent positive regulatory developments.

For example, as part of its beating cancer plan, the European Parliament Special Committee recognized and featured harm reduction in its draft report, for which the plenary vote will take place next week. In New Zealand, the government published its Smoke-free Action Plan, expressly excluding smoke-free products from the proposed measures. In addition, a number of countries including Poland and Russia have announced new multi-year excise tax plans, with taxation of smoke-free products clearly differentiated from cigarettes, making 15 markets globally with such plans.

There is a growing body of scientific and real-world evidence of the substantial risk reduction potential of smoke-free products compared with smoking. While challenges in some markets are to be expected, we continue to support regulatory and fiscal frameworks that recognize this critical harm reduction opportunity.

I'll now turn it back to Jacek for some concluding remarks.

Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Thank you Emmanuel. Overall, we are very pleased to have delivered excellent growth in 2021, with strong underlying momentum for IQOS, as well as record adjusted EPS, net revenues and cash generation. The consistent quality and sustainability of our organic top and bottom line delivery has been clearly demonstrated over the last 2 years, which I believe we all acknowledge, were pretty turbulent years. With an improving outlook for device supply although still with some element of agility, the exceptional initial success of ILUMA and the number of innovations and growth initiatives, we look forward to 2022 with a tremendous excitement. At the same time, we will be building our development capabilities in Wellness and Healthcare through targeted investment in order to support the next driver of our long-term growth.

Our balance sheet is strong, and we have increased cash returns to shareholders through a higher dividend and our share repurchase program in line with our objective to deliver sustainable value and returns to investors as we continue our smoke-free transformation.

In short, we continue to see a bright future for our business. Following a very strong 2021, we remain confident in our 2021-23 growth targets and in our ambition to be majority smoke-free by net revenues in 2025.

Thank you all for your attention. Emmanuel and myself will be happy to answer your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. And then we will now conduct the question and answer portion of the conference. (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Bonnie Herzog with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Bonnie Herzog{BIO 1840179 <GO>}
Thank you. Hi Jacek and Emmanuel, Hope you are both doing well. I have a question on your guidance. I have a question on your EPS guidance this year, it's quite a wide range at 8% to 11% on a currency neutral basis, so I was hoping you could highlight some of the key assumptions or drivers that you may be at the low end of that range versus what needs to happen for you to get to the 11% growth. For instance, is 11% if it was possible, even if the shortage situation doesn't get resolved for the next few months.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
I think Emmanuel.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
I'm going to take this one. So obviously and we've been saying in our preliminary remarks, We are still facing a number of uncertainty, the COVID has not disappeared. Even if things are seem to be improving, we don't have full visibility on the IC shortage and and on the supply chain globally and that is obviously what is behind we subsequently cautiousness on the guidance that we are giving on the topline. And then from there, we of course, are driving a business that is seeing a good momentum. We are the traditional driver of price increase. We're going to be very efficient on cost saving, you can see what we've been delivering in 2021, already more than $800 million of efficiency on our cost we're going to continue in 2022.

And then I know that is going to drive the difference between the revenue growth and the adjusted EPS organic growth. One of the headwind that we're going to face this year, which I think we should see as very positive because it's coming from the growth and we are managing a very nice potential of growth is that we are investing for exciting and improved. It start, of course, with the ILUMA in Japan. But globally the launch of ILUMA, but certainly a big impact in Japan where we know that when we launch a new product this is adding some impact on the cost of goods, because we are not at December level in term of efficiency on the supply chain, the productivity is not at its maximum and we've been extending that in our remarks and that is going to have some impact at the launch, we talk about air freight as well.

And they're going to have an impact. We said it, we probably what we see today is a modest decrease material decrease of the gross margin rate, we felt that it would have been from what we see today, another year of growth of the gross margin rate. but that's really what is driving the guidance. So we, we have some uncertainty, but we are very excited by the potential of growth that we see with all this innovation that is coming up, we have the traditional driver of efficiency that are going to help. We have some headwind, which was absolutely because we are coming with innovation and we need to invest in launches innovation. And actually revenue, I should add in term of innovation, certainly the fact that we also expanding in term of geography. What we see in Egypt bode extremely well for the potential in emerging country that we need to invest, of course, to build the capacity. We need to develop our commercial tools, we need to invest on the new platform vaping and nicotine pouches. So what I think is great in this guidance and our ambition for 2022, is that it's a year with a lot of investment for an exciting growth but we are still able to deliver a good dynamic top line, we are able to deliver nice margin improvement, good organic growth at a good level. And as you have seen we are usually cash generative. And we do that at the same time, again, while investing for the future.

Q - Bonnie Herzog{BIO 1840179 <GO>}
Okay, that's super helpful. And honestly, makes a lot of sense. So clearly a lot of puts and takes. But you've got a lot of levers to pull. For my second question maybe wanted to switch gears a bit, and just kind of ask a little bit about the situation in the US. And just maybe an update, it sounds like do you expect to get back in the market next year with IQOS so maybe love to hear a little more color on this. And will the build out of the production in the US, will that be your financial responsibility. And then Altria mentioned some issues between you two in terms of the agreement you have in our fourth quarter press release, so just was hoping to better understand what that could mean for instance if I guess Ultra fails to meet the terms of the agreement, would you then pursue distribution of IQOS in the US yourselves and or I guess finding another distribution partner. Can you kind of walk through that for us. And then I think on tax of a potential solution for in the US, assuming it gets passed yet. Thanks.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Yeah. Bonnie yes we working on bringing the manufacturing capacity for IQOS on the US territory and that's our mitigation plan or reaction plan to where we are today posted ITC event. As we said, we think that the summer at the beginning of the next year we should be in a position to resume the shipments in the US. As we disclose, we have some disagreements with regards to a variety of issues to fulfill the settlement milestones in the current contract and we are currently in negotiations or in discussions with Altria on how to resolve it. And I believe in good faith, we should be finding some solutions. I will go beyond speculating and all other options and how we would approach the value going forward in the US and in our partner results and I think we should see some amicable solution between both partners.

Now I have said it on a number of occasions than the US market as a few other markets in which we have a very negligible or no presence we have strategic importance of obviously you've heard about in the past, delays that that pre-ITC royalty income cost performance in US and you know how we cannot perform IQOS across all the essentially geographies and well below what I would expect at this stage characterizes the potential of IQOS and I take into this the fact that this is done, the higher level EBITDA authorized product. I know you don't really have a competition and the size of the market et cetera, I think it's fair to say that our expectations will monitor beyond where we are today. But I will stop here and I believe a global resolution, which we, on the one hand made American smokers, cigarette smokers to have access to that technology and also something which will be accretive to us the partner similar results there.

Q - Bonnie Herzog{BIO 1840179 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you, both. I'll pass it on.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Chris Growe with Stifel. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Chris Growe{BIO 4034432 <GO>}
Hi, good morning and good afternoon to you probably.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Hi Chris.

Q - Chris Growe{BIO 4034432 <GO>}
Hi, I just wanted to ask, first of all on IQOS and you had a nice acceleration in the number of IQOS users in the fourth quarter. I just wanted to get and I know you talked about an acceleration of getting back to that roughly 1 million users sequentially. Can that not happen until the second half of 2022 or will supply be sufficient to where you can start to see that level of user growth in the first half of 2022. I'm just trying to get a sense of that availability of devices to understand the growth in 2022.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Yeah. thank you for that. The reacceleration coming back to the previous user growth is highly encouraging you just confirmed that IQOS had that ability of continued growth. Obviously it very much hinges on the fact that we have unrestricted access or availability of the devices and remember IQOS today is of the heat not burn propositions which we have today. Cant say that the few versions of the IQOS Blade product, I should mention LIL product that is coming in for that partnership with KT&G and IQOS ILUMA and all of that altogether create certain portfolio proposition for the various, targeting the various consumers group, so we regain a little bit of flexibility of recomposing the full current volume in Q4, and hence you have all seen the spectacular gain in that acquisition. It is somehow reflected in our 46% growth target for this year that for how many months of how many weeks in a year where we think we can have unrestricted access to the full product portfolio of the devices, very much.

I believe that actually IQOS can fly higher if we remove the restricted mode, but cutting the product for the next year we should figure a bigger scenario, which is maybe more on the moderate side, et cetera. If this was, if we wouldn't have all this constraints coming from the devices, couple other things in the supply chain, I believe we would be looking at the different numbers, but at this stage, it's difficult to start baking this into something which we think we can deliver. But I think I am saying that IQOS has a higher potential, than that growth rate, but when you really have to be the moment when we can go on constraint.

Needless to say that part of our business is coming from Asia region And although the European Union, the western part of the world, if you like, seems like this living probably behind. We're still not at this stage in Japan and two other locations. So also have to start factoring busy. But I'm very optimistic that we can deliver 2022 and frankly speaking now we come into much traveling. So we need to take on other fast in 2022 I started looking actually excited about the 2023.

Q - Chris Growe{BIO 4034432 <GO>}
Okay, thank you for that.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Just to complement on your question on, can we reach 1 million. I think we are seeing we see whether a ramp-up today. It doesn't mean that we cannot reach 1 million in one of the quarter in H1. But it's true that we see a ramp up and an acceleration as we go through the year.

Q - Chris Growe{BIO 4034432 <GO>}
Okay, thank you for that and I just have a quick question on the US to follow on Bonnie's question. Is there a scenario where you prevail on the Patent Office to review that would allow you to start importing the products again before the first half of 2023. So you're getting your supply chain ready in the US, but is there a chance that you could win on the patents and not be able to import the product again.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
What that is, but the whole process is, I think it deserves a separate conversations about the patent laws and the process around qualifying and unfortunately we will have to cope with this, I mean even if we prevail on the invalidation of some patents. Obviously, the other parties here in this case, they have a right to appeal. So the whole process is really expended in time.

And by, you need another couple of years, frankly speaking, until you have one of the parts that you can actually claim the full victory. Then you'll have to go to the ITC and establish the restrictions, if you like which are now imposed on us. I think the fastest, after then the other resolutions, right, The fastest back to the US is proactive 18th our local other domestic capacity and re-supplying the market from that and then we may be alone, be unconstrained, which means that the US market could be supplied from the international and the domestic. But I think the near-term opportunity for us is to go that route which which we discussed.

Q - Chris Growe{BIO 4034432 <GO>}
Okay, thank you for your time today.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Thank you Chris.

Operator
We take our next question from Pamela Kaufman with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Pamela Kaufman{BIO 18021242 <GO>}
Hi, good morning.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Good morning.

Q - Pamela Kaufman{BIO 18021242 <GO>}
I have a question about your outlook for combustibles pricing in 2022. Pricing in 2021 was below your historical rate of growth given headwinds in Indonesia. But can you talk about your expectations for pricing, the pricing environment in 2022 and how you're prioritizing price realization versus market share in combustibles.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
So we're looking for as we said we looking at the 3% to 4% pricing variance this year, which is better stronger than the last year. I think some Asian geographies due to the variety of factors are still presumably devoting lower on what we think we could have more value realized a bit comparing at least to the historical trends that we had there.

Indonesia, as you rightly pointed out is the negative, although the tax increases, which the industry has to pass on, I mean give some give us some hope that we can end up with that might be Indonesia can return into the pricing because the important component of the growth. But you also have to take it from the considerations of the coffee, the volumes mean presumably talking more about the Philippines, let's say, how much of this framework unwind in 2022.

And having their, reaping the benefits in 2022 and how much we can build a good base for a 2023. It is going in the right direction, but a bit of a more is needed.

The rest of the pricing environment. Okay well, it's difficult to predict, but pricing is improving in all other geographies and we have a pretty good visibility at this stage. Obviously about the taxes in the major volume or profit market. The Emmanue, l his part of the remarks was talking about is more and more countries are taking this a multi-year approach to judge us, gives us better visibility and planning around.

As you know, in some countries, the tax increase is going to be passed to consumers in advanced therapy some preparatory OpEx on pricing before some pricing after. So with all of it well into the right direction, especially as we're taking in context that every country every market having a huge pressure on the public finances due to the current situation, et-cetera.

I think we have so far navigated pretty well.

Q - Pamela Kaufman{BIO 18021242 <GO>}
Great, thank you. My second question is on uptake and if you can provide some more color on how much of the new user growth in Japan has been driven by ILUMA for IQOS and what observations you have around the user base and the interaction with prior versions of IQOS. Thank you

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Yes, so you might have remember from the very beginning of ILUMA, I was personally very excited about that innovation and I'm so happy that it delivers on my expectation is, actually it's not even beating by expectations. So I will continue. If you allow me that, ILUMA does generate obviously the IQOS users, the blade product users appreciate the benefits of ILUMA between the first moment you have it in your hands and you have your first experience and the response from the consumers in Japan is phenomenal. Obviously, the first ILUMA goes to the existing users, but we also are having or getting benefits of existing IQOS users switching to ILUMA because they have uninterrupted consumption during every moment that they when they wish they willing to use the product and this also has an impact on the volumes.

In other sense if I give you this device, which is normally much more interesting to use, reliable much much not reliable, you will have a tendency to go to increase their consumption versus what you had on the blade will jump up I want patience to fall to allow for having that experience.

So that's a very good thing. Second thing is ILUMA after all of this initial months we observed a very solid higher level of conversions and if you know this is a very important component in the business model. How many devices, will fully convert smokers, combustible smokers, how many of them will stay because releases the pressure going forward, our segment, the margins, etcetera.

And the third one is at this stage, I remember the number correctly about the 20% of the of that ILUMA sales is coming from the people who were never inter category have not been articles. And also whether started the increase until part of sales increase, ILUMA also start taking back users who have migrated from a cost competitive products in whatever aspects of performance of ILUMA look like it really delivers on every axis. So the question is again and I know that for some might be do we have availability of the devices, and can we continuously seeing continued supply in the market and the rest, I believe so far is really going in the right direction.

Q - Pamela Kaufman{BIO 18021242 <GO>}
Thank you. That's helpful.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Thank you, Pam.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Vivien Azer with Cowen. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Vivien Azer{BIO 16513330 <GO>}
Hi, good morning.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Hello Vivien.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Hi Vivien.

Q - Vivien Azer{BIO 16513330 <GO>}
So, my first question is on pricing certainly encouraging to hear that your outlook for 2022 contemplates an improvement in pricing relative to last year. I was wondering, however, if you could just comment on how you're thinking about price gap management between your combustible cigarettes and heated tobacco units, please. Thank you.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Well essentially in Moscow, in all markets we maintain the same sort of position in IQOS today versus the cost combustible reference points. As you know, most of the tax systems, actually have that conversion baked beans, so there was a tax increase on combustibles somehow proportionality this triggers the increase on heated tobacco units which translate the consumer price gaps essentially untouched. We obviously complement depends on the market situation, our portfolio with for example KT&G proposition. And I think it works very nicely especially in the geographies IQOS reaches the level values, which are above, for example premium equivalent of the premium price segment in the combustible market. So we need to take affordability into equation as well.

So instead of doing something about the pricing of IQOS and HEETS we actually extended portfolio to below, but also to the above in some geographies when we saying that is above premium versus IQOS versus HEETS the opportunity, we did it very successfully in Russia and in a few European markets. So I think the whole thing is that the broad that we have a portfolio of both horizontally from a price perspective and vertically from a taste flavor etcetera perspective we increasingly creating more attractiveness for the cigarette smokers to switch to heating the door.

Q - Vivien Azer{BIO 16513330 <GO>}
Thank you so much. And my follow-up question is on your decision to discontinue platform to use heat, certainly that product has been under evaluation for a number of years and I was just curious to hear kind of the key takeaway from the consumer test is the problem that consumers are using a live heat source and that's just creating a lot of confusion in terms of reduced risk proposition, was it product performance. Just any other color would be helpful. Thanks.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
No, actually using like if you allow me to tackle and which it was more on the user interface, rather than anything that is I don't think that ties which we, the number of the market test, the proposition, deliverability of the propositions in terms of the analysis is a better alternative to smoking and everything goes, they show actually pertains to the balances. As you remember, the design at the very end of the cigarette I'd like looking product, you had a heat source, which requires lighting. Okay, this was the out from this from the paper account lighting this and that is the question how do you extinguish the product right because you need to pay attention to extinguish. And this was actually in our opinion, the constant opinion actually not believing that the adoption levels which we able to reach craft then especially comparing our experience from other platforms mean there maybe one platform.

So I think we reach the level at the moment that the design of the product and this part of the technology around the heat stores operating asking to, product and operate around this whole thing led us to the conclusion that we I think that design compound and the shutdown. And I think still the proposition makes sense is understood by the consumer has a potential but we cannot offer the product to the consumers, which they not find convenient to use. The convenience is the name of what the consumers who want these days and I think we need to deliver our business and especially that in our ambition would be to also leverage that equity which we built around the IQOS and IQOS cannot afford kind of default going into the product which reach their customers.

So I think we will come back one day to that -- from the very beginning you may recall our early investors when we start talking about the vision of going smoke free and how many platforms will be needed compared to the 1 billion smokers world wide. This is that proposition which is for the more concerned about the guidance. The people who really don't want to completely walk away from the retail and experience when the combustible cigarettes delivery. So I think in terms of our other growth prospect for the near term. I don't think it's that the launch of initiatives that we will be working by using a different approach to the design and the technology going forward. So, I hope, it answer your question.

Q - Vivien Azer{BIO 16513330 <GO>}
Yeah, that's very helpful, thank you so much.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Thank you Vivien.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Jain, Gaurav with Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Gaurav Jain{BIO 20455166 <GO>}
Thanks a lot. Good morning. So I have a couple of questions, the first one is on your guidance, sales volume growth is -1 to 1 you are saying cigarette pricing will be 3 to 4 and then category price mix in that slide that you have, it is +3 assuming it is +3 so, it should should come to +5% to +8% on revenue growth for FY22 but you are saying 4 to 6. So that will imply that the category mix uplift will be less in FY22 than was the case in FY21. So can you just help us understand why that would be the case.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Happy to try to go out certainly, what we are expecting in 2022 is to have another very nice difference between the volume growth and the revenue growth. And indeed for the volume, we've been guiding to from -1 to +1. So then the question is how much are we going to generate in term of extra growth there this price where we are seeing 3 to 4 remember we've done 2.7 in 2021.

So the low end of the bracket is not massively above what we did in 2021, but it's true that it could be better and certainly something that we are factoring in the, in the high end. And then there is the impact of the growth of the IQOS business is not done categories where we have this positive mix impact that is playing at the mix and you know with the launch in many new economies and new geographies emerging country that is potentially having an impact on the differentials. So we do expect a very strong differential again. But let me say, at the same level as the difference that we generated in 2021.

Last but not least, we referred to the fact that we are at the beginning and it's temporary higher wait on the consumable for (inaudible) cinema, Ontario and this is having an impact because the excise duty in the country where the excise duty are based on weight is higher. And therefore, because we are coming with the same price for the consumables. And that can generate and you have a switch but temporary again I insist on the fact that it's temporary decrease, a slight decrease on the caustic so that can have an impact as well.

So that is, that is really what, you're going to have plus potentially some impact on the, on the price of the device. Which will depend on the volume of the device that we sell. Also on the mix of the. We sell and also on the commercial aggressiveness that we want to have on the price of the device. So you have to take a number of things into account.

Now at the end of the day. As you can see between the -1 to +1 and the 4 to 6. We are definitely targeting to have another year, with a very nice differential between volume and improving growth we see exactly how we end up.

Q - Gaurav Jain{BIO 20455166 <GO>}
Okay, that's very helpful. And my second question is on the Beyond Nicotine segment where you will have $150 million of operating losses this year and you make it also the comment that you will invest in it in future years so that you can hit the $1 billion revenue target. So does it mean that the losses we should expect to be higher in FY23 than what they will be in FY22 or when could we expect that segment to breakeven.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Well, I think there will be an investment for the next few years. couple of other a few years, which we are willing to do. I think if you stay with us and wait until the Cogna when we give you more insights of what do we have what is our thinking about this beyond in the wellness and healthcare system.

Business when we going to be, we'll be in a position to show Reach product concrete products programs we're willing to go after what is the size of an opportunity and what sort of investment in tariffs. But I think the number, which we gave for this year for 2020. Turning in the guidance, that's about the ballpark excited of the investment, which we will be carrying for the couple of years.

So it's not, a one-off, it could go Italia but don't expect an explosion year that I think had a good calibration of the kind of amount that we're going to invest over a few years.

Q - Gaurav Jain{BIO 20455166 <GO>}
Okay, thanks a lot.

A - Emmanuel Babeau{BIO 4114796 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
We take our next question from Gerard DiMeo with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Gerard DiMeo
Hi guys. First I want to touch a bit more on the nicotine pouches, how should we be thinking about the scale of that initial launch in the Nordics and how should we think about the future market launches that you guys touched on a bit. Are you considering launching nicotine pouches in markets, maybe they don't have a nicotine pouch presence today, like some of your emerging markets. And also just looking at the potential in the US, would you consider a PMTA application there as well.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Yeah, I will leave it there. US aside for a second, I think nicotine pouches can play a very important role, if you like on the smelting smokers. Okay. They demonstrated their ability that that proposition in many markets initially we're essentially taking share as we acquire this and after making of the product and the packaging, et cetera, will go into the market then there was some sales of share of, obviously not very high, but we start with where we already were present.

And build on this as always in our innovations, look at the consumers feedback exceeded. We have to improve and we also have some product pipelines behind the initial offering of which we now could accelerate to the large extent. Thanks to the acquisition of therapy. Now Feritin gives us much broader opportunities themselves the pouches because Feritin sees on the very interesting delivery systems for a lot of delivery.

We know that Feritin is the manufacture of the nicotine-replacement therapies like the gums, nicotine gums. But we also have an interesting technology. So we will be thinking we start with the pouches. But I think over a period of time of 2022. I think I'll layer the delivery Gavin pattern as a substitute to smoking. It is actually very attractive opportunity, which we are very excited to start working on.

So we will go into the gel good fees obviously when pouches are not present today. I mean we have a geographical footprint In addition to market they have a quite, a meaningful and cost infrastructure you're talking sharpest banking digital you haven't got the CRM commerce consumer engagement. I believe we can start with that didn't feel that our portfolio of the propositions to smokers. Overall, the CapEx brought that other category that just the pouches so focus this year on the punches. Will be extending the presence, but I think that is more than just, just the pouches and better, so very pleased that we've concluded the acquisition of Feritin because it gives us, it accelerates our development by a quite good few years which otherwise we would have organically.

Q - Gerard DiMeo
Got it. So just a follow-up on that, so you would consider US PMTA application.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
I think I answered the questions to Bonnie. US is a very attractive market and I believe resolve the strategic importance to loans and I do believe that the, when the market of the size of the US, you need to have all platforms, frankly speaking because another one platform, which can guarantee that they took the full success of full seizing opportunities ultimately Yes. But our focus today is somewhere else.

Q - Gerard DiMeo
Got it. And the second one going going back towards cigarettes and IQOS. Are you guys worried at all about potential impacts of price elasticities with especially with lower income consumers, given the inflationary environment and where you guys are positioned in most markets are usually more at the premium end and maybe you can give a comment on that.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
Yeah, so the price elasticity is always the concern that we know very well. Sometimes, price elasticity on the and got product is elevated due to the pressures or income pressures on the consumers, so now not having that situations in a few markets that consumers have a pressure on the income, I mean viability of some of these pressures will unwind as the COVID be becoming a sort of the past. And I don't think there's anything system. It is very interesting, you're asking this question, because if allowing the market where we were taking pricing on cigarettes and the extent the market has been pretty robust set of data from the past increases. I think today products like IQOS or alternatives to smoking tends to have a better elasticity, price elasticity than a conventional cigarette.

And as you know, I guess very well. The price elasticity on cigarettes and discussed by other factors was pretty attractive, and it wasn't part of the building as a business model. And actually at this stage looks about setting out, they've even have not high above better then, then a combustible cigarette. Supplier actually outperformed the elasticity perspective, but from the pure affordability perspective we already pretty successfully IQOS in the low middle income countries but regardless, I know that in order to make the more significant mineral to carbon proposition, which directly addresses the need of below meat pricing price segments and we will not deliver the smokers behind alone and before the end of this year we have been plans to test another technology, which will allow for their devices and consumables to be more accessible from affordability perspective, while there is going to harm reduction potential as I, because as we know it today.

So we're taking those things into serious consideration. Well, thank you for your question.

Q - Gerard DiMeo
Got it. Very clear. I appreciate the answers.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
You are welcome.

Operator
And there are no further questions at this time, I will turn the call back over to the management team for any closing remarks.

A - Jacek Olczak{BIO 15910331 <GO>}
While this was a lot longer longer than expected while we also deliver the result, better than we expected, think somehow the metrics. Thank you very much for your attention. We invite you to our company presentation, which will be in a position to give it more like more of the tariffs, on the few aspects, like what we discussed today wellness but also how we look at in a much broader terms. The development of these categories. And I think you could feel in my voice and Emmanuel voice how excited we are that 21, we delivered that shape and form and despite a number of heavy delivery articulate pretty well, we're still looking into the very successful and rewarding for both of us in 2022. So thank you very much for your attention and hope to see most of the even though that are going to continue the presentation.

A - Nick Rolli{BIO 13380104 <GO>}
Thank you all. Thank you very much. And do you have any follow-up questions, please contact the Investor Relations team. And just a reminder that the slides and script are available on the PMI website. Thank you very much, have a great day.

Operator
Thank you. And this does conclude today's Philip Morris International fourth Quarter 2021 Year End Earnings Conference Call. At this time, you may disconnect and have a wonderful day.