Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Doug Constantine, Director of Investor Relations
Jochen G. Schunter, Commercial Lines Controller
John Sauerland, Chief Financial Officer
Karen Bailo, Commercial Lines President
Pat Callahan, Personal Lines President
Tricia Griffith, President & Chief Executive Officer
Other Participants
Brian Meredith, Analyst, UBS
David Martin Lennon, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Elyse Greenspan, Analyst, Wells Fargo
Gary Ransom, Analyst, Dowling & Partners
Greg Peters, Analyst, Raymond James,
Josh Shanker, Analyst, Bank of America
Meyer Shields, Analyst, KBW
Michael Phillips, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Ryan Tunis, Analyst, Autonomous Research.
Tracy Benguigui, Analyst, Barclays.
Presentation
Doug Constantine{BIO 22182643 <GO>}
Morning and thank you for joining us today for Progressive's second quarter Investor Event. I am Doug Constantine, Director of Investor Relations and I will be moderator for today's event.

The company will not make detailed comments related to quarterly results in addition to those provided in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q and the letter to shareholders which have been posted to the company's website.

This quarter marks a return to our typical format, which is a presentation on a specific portion of our business, followed by a question-and-answer session with members of our leadership team.

The introductory comments by our CEO and the presentation were previously recorded. Upon completion of the previously recorded remarks, we will use the balance of the 90 minutes scheduled for this event for live questions and answers with leaders featured in our recorded remarks as well as other members of our management team.

As always discussions in this event may include forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those discussed during today's event.

Additional information concerning those risks and uncertainties is available on our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2020 as supplemented by our 10-Q report for the first and second quarters of 2021, where you will find discussions of the risk factors affecting our business, Safe Harbor statements related to forward-looking statements, and other discussions of challenges we face.

These documents can be found in the Investor Relations sections or website at investors.progressive.com.

To begin today, I am pleased to introduce our CEO, Tricia Griffith, who will kick us off with some introductory talents.

Tricia?

Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Let me set the stage for discussion. As a reminder, we as a construct, recall the four quarter strenghts. This construct allows us to focus and make investments and drive value to the organization and all of our constituents. Who we are, which are our five core values?

Peter Louis wrote these back in 1987 and they have served us well over the decades specifically during this past year and a half as we've navigated completely foreign waters and have made decisions on behalf of all of our constituents.

We have used our core values as a guide, I won't go into all that we did because I've publicly written about much of it, but suffice it to say, we believe all along the way we did the right thing.

Why we're here? Our purpose statement which is true to our name, Progressive. We believe this statement is about forward progress, innovation and never resting on our past performance.

Where we're headed, our vision, which is to become consumers' and agents' number one choice and destination, auto, home and other insurance. We want consumers and our agent partners to choose to take care of all their and their clients insurance with us now and as those needs evolve. We know that we must earn their trust every day in order to achieve this vision.

How we'll get there, our strategy and more specifically, our four strategic pillars, which is how we think explicitly about investing to ultimately achieve our vision.

I'll briefly give you a high level overview of how we think about each pillar. People and culture- our goal is to ensure our people and culture collectively remain our most powerful source of competitive advantage, including attracting and hiring new talent, retain the people we have and developing everyone so that we can all have long and prosperous careers.

We will support our people and culture by ensuring people can bring their whole selves to work through our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Broad needs- we will meet the broader needs of our customers throughout their lifetimes by being available where, when and how our customers want to interact with us. Helping our customers select the best insurance for their current needs as well as their evolving insurable needs throughout their lifetime.

Leading brand- we will maintain the leading brand recognized for innovative offerings and supported by experiences that instill confidence with messages that resonate.

Competitive pricing- we will offer competitive prices by pricing rate to risk through our industry-leading segmentation, balancing efficiency and accuracy in claims and finding ways to continually drive costs down through process changes and technology advances.

Our agenda will be in three sections and will cover the commercial auto market and trends in the industry, including our performance relative to the market. We'll do a market overview that will outline our long-term growth plan. And finally, an update on market capabilities and expanding our product offering.

Before we begin our deep dive commercial lines agenda, I do want to acknowledge that we are highly cognizant of the fact that we reported a 100.5 combined ratio for June and are and have been taking steps to ensure profitability as we come out of the pandemic.

Commercial lines as a huge opportunity for Progressive. So I don't want to draw attention away from the very important agenda Karen and Jochen have for you upcoming by offering prepared comments on results.

I expect we'll have the opportunity in Q&A to share steps we've taken and are in the process of undertaking to ensure we achieve our calendar year '96 or better underwriting margin objective.

Let's kick off the first section by talking about the addressable market. When we began this webcast, many years back, we started with showing the property in casualty, addressable market and we discussed our plans for both personal lines and commercial lines.

Our commercial lines offerings have evolved over time and of course, we recently acquired Protective Insurance. So we thought this is a good time to give you a more detailed update.

To summarize the entire market, you'll see in the center of the slide that the total property and casualty market is $730 billion, the Progressive share 5.7% as reflected in both of the blue section of the donuts and the blue percentages. The gray reflects the industry.

On the personal line side, we have a 9.6% of the $366 billion market split between personal auto at 12.9% share and homeowners at 1.7% share. We've had massive growth here but still plenty of room to grow.

The commercial lines addressable market is 364 billion and includes a wide array of opportunities. The commercial auto opportunity alone is a $46 billion market, where we hold the number one position with plenty of room to grow at 12.1% share with a large other commercial addressable market of $318 billion. At this point in time, the market that we believe we can both play and win in is approximately $78 billion.

If you start near the top of the circle and go clockwise that entails monoline commercial auto, small fleets, transportation network companies, commercial auto bundled with GL and BOP, small business with GL and BOP, medium and large fleet with Protective and workers' comp with Protective.

The addressable markets that we aren't currently and include public transportation, larger commercial multi-peril businesses with over 20 employees and products like mortgage guarantee and marine, just to name a few. We are very excited about the opportunities that lie ahead and that we started investing in many years ago to set us up for future growth.

We've shared these Q by Q charts a few times. As a reminder, the X-axis is the combined ratio on an inverted scale. So you want to be to the right of 100, the Y-axis is net written premium growth, so you want to be above the black line showing positive growth. Together, you want to be in the top right hand shaded area, where we're growing market share at or below 96 combined ratio.

The blue dot is Progressive and the black dot is the industry and the gray dots are the others in the top 10 each year since 2015 through 2020. As we reflect on the past six years, we've consistently been in that area, growing market share and achieving at least a 96 combined ratio. In fact, on both profitability and growth, we frequently beat the industry in any individual competitor by wide margins.

I think to get into the meat of their program but before I do that, I'll give some background on our speakers. I think many of you have met Karen before. Karen Bailo is our Commercial Lines President. She's with Progressive for over 30 years with her most recent role as General Manager of acquisition and small-business insurance.

Karen has held several other significant leadership positions, including Personal Lines GM, Commercial Lines Controller, and most notably, she spent nine years building our agency distribution organization and positioning Progressive as a preferred supplier in that channel.

Karen, started her career in customer service as a management trainee, and like others on our Executive Team, she was the claims rep earlier in her Progressive career. A graduate of the University of South Carolina, Karen earned a bachelor's degree in psychology with a minor in statistics and she went on to earn an MBA from Case Western Reserve University.

Jochen Schunter began his career in Progressive in 2006 after moving to Cleveland, Ohio from Southern Germany. He is an alumnus of both the University of Dayton where he earned an MBA and of the Friedrich Alexander University Erlangen-Nurnberg where he earned Bachelor's and Master's degree in the arts.

After doing rounds in both the accounting and analyst rotational programs of Progressive, Jochen join commercial lines in 2008. He started out in various pricing in control functions and then moved into product management. First, he managed several states, including California and our market entry into Hawaii and then, took on bigger responsibilities as the leader of our truck products.

During his tenure, he significantly contributed to increasing our market share by rolling out numerous product enhancements and also improving segmentation. Now as Commercial Lines controller, Jochen leads the organization responsible for ensuring we run a profitable business.

This includes the strategy and performance monitoring, risk analysis, data and analytics, rate-setting compliance and recovery as well as finance and accounting.

I'll now hand it over to Karen to outline our commercial lines trends.

Karen Bailo{BIO 22012645 <GO>}
We will be sharing a number of charts and graphs to highlight our business performance during this presentation. While our June results include Protective based on our closing date of June 1 for the purposes of this presentation, unless otherwise stated, the numbers exclude Protective.

I'd like to begin with a look at our performance relative to the industry. This is a 20-year time series of Progressive commercial auto net written premium growth rate versus the rest of the industry. During this time period, our results have really diverged from the industry. There are a couple of observations around growth that I'd like to highlight.

First, commercial auto has some cyclicality to it and tends to move with the larger economy. And second, when the market grows, Progressive has historically grown at a faster pace. In fact, since 2016, we've doubled the business and gained almost four points of market share and that equates to more than 20% compounded growth rate and achieving more than 12% market share.

The more significant divergence from the market has been an underwriting profit. We've outperformed the industry by 8 to 10, and as much as 20 points over those 20 years. Our objective is to grow as fast as we can at target combined ratios and we've had a track record of success and outperformed the industry on both growth and profit over those 20 years.

There is a number of contributing factors. But perhaps most important, has been the intense focus on commercial auto as a core line of business for the company. We've shared this information in the past and wanted to provide a brief refresher on how we approach our auto business.

We segment our business into what we refer to as business market targets and we introduced these business market targets for commercial auto in 2014. Since introduced, BMTs are now operationalized across virtually every aspect of our business, That's important because we see meaningful and actionable differences between these BMTs.

For example, the demand function is different by BMT and how that demand function response to changes in different economic conditions is different. We also see that losses present differently and how they develop, attorney representation rates and litigation outcomes differ by BMT. Certainly frequency and severity trends, and other factors change at different rates and different times by BMT, all of which are critical inputs to determining rate level.

This granular focus allows us to develop insights faster, be more responsive with strategies and tactics to (inaudible)

I want to talk about what we're observing in shopping, loss trends and how we're positioned for continued success. We have the benefit of over 10 billion miles of driving data with our Telematics data.

This chart shows patterns and driving miles, highway congestion and highway speeding pre and post-pandemic. You can see that as stay at home orders were issued, there was a significant decrease in miles driven and congestion on the highways. At the same time, there was an increase in highway speeding.

Now, while the impact from COVID on small businesses was severe, when we look at our business class level data, it's also clear that different businesses were affected differently. For example, in the truck space fully a third of our Smart Haul customers saw their mileage increase while about 8% were shut down completely.

Landscapers and most construction trades were still working and other service businesses were not.

Looking at more recent trends, while we see mileage and congestion back to pre-COVID levels speeding events haven't dropped back to where they were. This raises the question around whether COVID brought a permanent change to truckers driving habits and it's something we'll keep a close eye on in the months to come.

In addition to our own data, we look to other macroeconomic trends to develop a deeper understanding of shopping and small business trends, especially during challenging economic conditions. This chart shows our insurance shopping trends in this case agency quote growth for businesses that tie to goods and services sectors indexed to 2019.

Progressive quote data is in the solid line and consumer spend data is in the dotted line. Our experience tracks closely to the rate of consumer spending on goods and services. So this is data we have and will continue to monitor. The macroeconomic data shows spending on goods recovered more quickly, while the services sector has lagged and has been more depressed relative to goods sectors.

Some of that is because services sectors were more affected by stay-at-home orders and good spending has been supported by federal government stimulus. That intuitively makes sense and we see that in our underlying data. Businesses that were considered more essential plumbing or sanitation services or those that tied to the transportation of goods like agriculture hauling or livestock hauling responded differently versus those that are tied to services industries like airports shuttles, food trucks and entertainers.

The positive news is that as the service businesses reopen, we're seeing a recovery in spending towards 2019 levels. This increase in spending on services should drive a rebound in insurance shopping for businesses related to that sector, again food trucks, restaurant delivery, airports shuttles, just to name a few.

In summary, different businesses have been affected differently and this is important in terms of how we think about trends, the implications for frequency and severity and ultimately rate level going forward.

In our last update in 2019, we shared a historical perspective that provides a good illustration of how we will approach today's environment.

Back in 2016, we saw a marked increase in frequency between May and November, at the same time some prior year reserve development was contributing to an already positive severity trends. We responded quickly to address those trends raising rates by more than 10% and made a series of underwriting changes in about three months and we've continued with a series of changes and adjustments since.

Fast forward to recent trends, you can clearly see the impact of COVID on frequency. We saw a sharp decline in frequency as stay at home orders went into effect. And as I shared earlier driving miles from our usage-based insurance data shows driving miles and congestion levels are back to pre-pandemic levels and the services sectors are also rebounding.

Given all of those conditions, we're seeing lost frequency rising relative to COVID lows, when frequency fell dramatically, and at the same time, we continue to see a steady increase in severity trends that we've been accounting for in our rate level indications.

Given the variation and how businesses were affected by pandemic, some slowing down and other seeing an increase in business, we have been and plan to continue to be cautious in our actions. We haven't lowered rates and we've been conservative in our pricing and underwriting decisions. The trends we're observing now are lining up with what's forecasted in our rate level indications.

We have planned for frequency recovery and continued steep severity trends and have kept pace with net trends with the combined rate increase of 29% from the beginning of 2016 through the first half of this year. The additional segmentation we've built into the product over the last five years has proven effective and driven, better than industry underwriting results and growth.

And I would suggest having a granular approach to the business and reacting decisively to what we see, while much of the market is slower to react has been an important part of maintaining strong underwriting margins and growing the business over the years. So we continue to advance our product segmentation and underwriting capabilities and we plan to continue to respond appropriately to loss trends going forward.

I'd like to shift to a discussion on expenses and efficiency. And we know from experience that companies that can achieve a lower cost structure and gain share at a greater rate than the overall industry. We've seen that in the personal lines market and believe it matters in the commercial lines market as well.

The correlation of efficiency aiding and growth isn't lost on us and we're well positioned on this chart. The 2020 results show that we are nearly 11 points lower than the industry average in LAE and expense ratio. In a very price sensitive industry, that 11 point advantage is significant.

But there is a balance. We don't necessarily want to be the lowest because we believe and also investing in what matters. Quality outcomes for customers that are in loyalty and investments that foster great work environment for our employees. To that end, I'd like to highlight where we're making investments to improve on both those fronts.

This is a view of our expense ratio track record over a 10-year time period and over that time period, we've seen a sev en to eight point expense advantage compared to the industry.

That advantage was six points in 2020 due in part because COVID credit flowed through expenses rather than premium resulting in a slight elevated expense ratio. While we've had an expense advantage over this time period, we're prioritizing initiatives to extend our leadership position.

There are a number of levers that drive expense ratio advantages. And while we don't have enough time for a comprehensive review of all the efforts underway, I wanted to share with you two examples that demonstrate active cost management efforts to drive expense reductions and improve experiences at the same time. These both highlight our focus in managing expenses related to our growth and improving our operational efficiency.

We maintain a disciplined focus on managing overhead and growth in headcount as we grow the business. This chart is designed to represent a few things. The solid blue line represents overall net earned premium growth, the solid orange line represents employee costs and real estate costs are represented in the solid black line.

You can see that while employee costs and real estate costs have gone up, they've grown at a lower rate relative to net earned premium and there are a couple of reasons for that.

One is being disciplined and judicious in decisions to increase staff. We've added the dotted lines here to represent volume driven and non-volume driven employee growth. And while we've grown our volume driven counts in line with our net earned premium pace, we've been very targeted in adding non-volume driven resources and our non-volume driven employee count has grown at a much lower rate.

This discipline has resulted in growing our total employee cost, the orange line less than net earned premium growth.

The second is related to real estate like personal lines prior to the pandemic, our customer agent services organization enabled real estate expense savings by implementing a home based consultant model.

This model has a number of benefits. It provides broader access to talents and improved our ability to increased staff to support our growing business, especially last year and it's also provided flexibility that employees value. In addition, this model allows us to grow our business without a commensurate growth in space. In 2019, almost 40% of our commercial lines agents and customer services consultants were working from home.

Now, we're still working through our plans as we transition back to the office post pandemic. We expect the portion of our customer and agent services consultants that work from home to grow materially as people make the decision to remain working from home going forward. This will support our ability to grow without significantly growing our real estate footprint.

The second example of our cost management efforts highlights investments in systems and technology to deliver the products and services, our agents and customers value while focusing on increasing operational efficiency.

We've been investing significantly in systems to support our core auto business and in expanding our business with our BOP product and direct small business capabilities. Despite significant investments in technology and systems, we've been able to maintain our expense advantage. And we have knowledge and expected this relatively short term increase in technology costs to lower our costs in the long run with gains in efficiency and new lines of business.

Now, improving efficiency to push our expense advantage is a key objective. Two examples of progress are shown here. We've shared in previous Annual Report commentary that we're transitioning to a new policy administration system. And this new system is a significant driver of our technology expenses and [ph] pulling out the new system is a big part of our ability to drive more efficiency.

The new system introduces more modern functionality that enables faster delivery of our products and enhancements and the ability to improve customer experiences and self-service capabilities. The initial launch of this new system [ph] interstate brings consumer online buy capabilities.

The chart on the left shows the total lift in direct online sales yield with our new system. Now completely isolating the effects of the online buy capabilities is difficult. But we are seeing an 80% improvement in online sales yield after introducing this new system and that would translate to more than a 20% increase in direct auto sales.

Now, a direct is still a relatively small portion of our business. We expect this added functionality to bring long-term economic benefit to us in terms of improved sales yield and lower acquisition costs for that part of our business. And that's very important as this business grows.

A second way we're gaining efficiency is via process automation. On the right is a representation of improvements and we've already made reducing the manual work associated with millions of documents we receive every year via fax, email or paper mail. Until recently, each document had to be manually reviewed and categorized for action, either to be attached to a policy and sent directly to storage or put in queue for additional processing.

Over half of these documents are in that first group, they don't require any action beyond archival. We have a project underway to automate that workflow by the end of the year using optical character recognition technology to review those documents automatically and attach them to a policy and send them to storage without human intervention. And this frees up resources to focus on other more value-added work.

These are just two examples to illustrate how we will focus future investments. Now, while we're pleased with our early progress, we're just getting started. And we have a robust road map ahead of us, that will target more efficiency improvements and self-service capabilities designed to meet customer and agents expectations.

Investments in product experiences and more efficient workflows combined should enable us to reduce the drivers of cost to service our customers. We anticipate that by lowering our costs, we will be able to further extend our expense advantage and position us well for any market conditions.

Now, moving on to the other part of our expense advantage. We believe our claims organization provides us with a significant competitive advantage on commercial auto vis-a-vis our competition.

We've doubled the core auto business while maintaining very competitive loss adjustment expense ratios and good quality. Our claims advantage comes from a surgical focus on claims accuracy and efficiency. And back in 2019, we shared how our claims organization leverages the scale of our broader personal lines claims organization with a focus on specialization for high impact and complex claims.

We continue to push commercial lines specialization as we grow our business. And we also see significant potential in leveraging technology and analytics to increase productivity and claims handling segmentation along with improving accuracy.

I wanted to share a brief example, to illustrate how we're leveraging data and data science and advanced analytics to monitor and react to claims activity and exposure changes. The image on this slide represents a homegrown tool developed to inform leaders of claims that need review.

The tool is powered by a file intervention program that uses analysis and data science to populate the tool and is designed to improve a leaders focus on at risk files. This helps improve claims accuracy through better coaching and support timely claim handling efforts.

We know handling delays can result in unfavorable outcomes and the alerts are prioritized and trigger on the best date for the leader to intervene for the most favorable results.

In this example, you see a code FS13 with a description potential for delay in total loss resolution. In this example, an alert triggered on March 19 with a message indicating a potential delay in resolving a total loss settlement. The leader intervenes by providing guidance to the claim rep on the open activity on the file and since the leader intervened, the trigger is programmed to return two days later to make sure the claim rep is following up on the guidance provided.

The next alert triggers on March 21, the leader reviews the file and sees that the claim rep followed up on the direction provided, so no additional intervention is needed at this point in time. The leader indicates no to the intervention question in the lower left, and once no intervention is selected, alert is programmed to return eight days later, if the total loss is still not resolved.

In this case, the total loss resolved on March 25 and so the alert didn't return for the third time.

This is a powerful tool that helps our claims teams efficiently run the business of claims and contributes to more timely and accurate claims handling.

A final point on our performance relative to the industry is related to reserving where our philosophy is to be as accurate as possible with minimal variation.

This chart shows our commercial auto reserve development versus the industry and we have a much tighter variance. And we see two primary reasons for this. One, contributing factor is the claims organization we just talked about, leveraging technology and advanced analytics to increase productivity and get a right claims to the right resource more quickly leads to more timely and accurate claims handling and better outcomes.

The other contributing factor is the highly segmented approach we take to loss reserving for commercial auto as we do with our other products. We've operationalized that BMT structure in addition to the usual loss cost cuts and it allows us to see pattern changes sooner and react appropriately.

Having more consistent and predictable loss cost estimates through accurate reserving lets us understand our true ultimate costs faster and be more responsive with pricing and product refinements. So that's a little background on what we've been seeing in our commercial auto results recently and why we've been able to produce some different outcomes relative to the industry.

I'd now like to turn it over to Jochen Schunter, who will share a little about our plan for extending our leadership in commercial auto including, how and where Protective Insurance fits into those plans.

Jochen G. Schunter
Thank you, Karen. I'd like to spend some time talking about our track record of extending our commercial auto leadership position and investments that we continue to make. Let me start by talking a little bit about our two telematics programs that we have in-market today, Smart Haul and Snapshot ProView.

We're proud to say that we have recently surpassed $500 million of commercial auto premium in force from these telematics-based programs and that we've analyzed over 10 billion miles of data.

Smart Haul is our truck focused telematics program that leverages the data from federally mandated Electronic Logging Devices or ELD for short. Per the federal mandate most over-the-road truckers need an ELD to manage the hours of service.

Smart Haul uses driving data from a truckers existing ELD in exchange for a discount on their insurance of up to 18%. And while conversion is nearly double our normal truck conversion, we continue to see a sizable loss ratio advantage for this book even after applying those steep discounts, which average about $1500 per policy.

It's clear, this is good business and it's all incremental and verifiable segmentation that we're able to apply at point of sale. To demonstrate how powerful the segmentation has proven to be, I'd like to draw your attention to the chart on the left.

Telematics is the most predictive variable in our for hire transportation segment. The depicted bar includes the power of new variables enabled by telematics, in addition to variables that can be derived from telematics, such as territory ozone. As you can see telematics is by far our most predictive rating variable and we have plans to further evolve the model by adding even more predictiveness to it.

Our continued research of driving data is allowing us to constantly evolve and improve the model.

Switching over to auto telematics program, Snapshot ProView. We have a program that provides discounts and complementary fleet management features to our non-ELD customers.

While this program is much younger, we already see the segmentation power of telematics, especially in segments where driving patterns vary significantly from risk to risk.

The chart on the slide shows the average drive time for select business classes and a variance around that average.

Let's pick the restaurant business class as an example. We have insurers that use their vehicle close to five hours a day, likely to deliver food. At the same time, we have restaurants that use that vehicle less than one-hour a day. You can imagine loss costs may look very different for those two use cases.

That's just one example how telematics data can help us create new segmentation as we create new insights from the 10 billion miles of collected data.

Next I'd like to highlight some of the most significant milestones, we have been able to achieve in commercial auto over the years that we're especially proud of.

First, in 2008 we became the largest write-off truck insurance in the United States. In 2015, we became the number one write-off. commercial auto overall. In 2019, we became the number one write off, preferred truck in the non-fleet space. I'll talk more about that in a minute. And lastly, this year, we passed $6 billion in net written premium making us more than two times the size of our next closest competitor based on trailing 12 month statutory data.

As mentioned on the prior slide, we've made big strides in growing our preferred truck book enabling us to become the number one write off non-fleet preferred truck in 2019. We define preferred truck as motor carriers that have a track record of being financially responsible with three or more years in business and a strong safety record.

Based on our analysis, we grew our estimated share of non-fleet preferred truck from 5.9% in January of 2016 to 15.4% in May of 2021. On the direct written premium basis that reflects an annual growth rate of 29.5% over that same five-year time period. We did so by launching product enhancements that improved our competitiveness, while hitting our annual calendar year profit targets each of those yields.

Those investments have helped us improve consideration amongst the most preferred truck shopping for insurance. In fact, of all the non-fleet preferred motor carriers that require a federal filing that switched insurance carriers in 2021 with auto lapse and coverage, we got quoted on 48.2% of them. That number is up from 35.3% in Q1 of 2016.

With this success, we continue to pursue a robust roadmap to enhance our product and coverage offerings, along with improved segmentation, allowing us to offer even lower rates for the best risks.

Another exciting opportunity to grow our business across all BMT is targeted at business at 10 to 40 vehicle. The small fleet market is about a $7 billion market, where we have low penetration and only began increasing our focus on and investing in over the last couple of years.

As we increased our focus, we saw opportunities to improve our pricing and add fleets specific segmentation to provide more competitive rate to the best fleet risks. In addition, we expanded our underwriting team to support new underwriting capabilities, ensure appropriate pricing and accelerate the underwriting process.

Today, we have the segmentation, assets and capabilities to compete effectively in this attractive market.

As you can see on the left chart, we've been able to more than triple our fleet book over the last five years with a meaningful acceleration in the last year. The right funnel chart shows the impact of improvements we've been able to elevate just in the last year driving that growth.

While we've been able to increase growth by 19% in the trailing 12 months, we've been able to increase bindable quotes by 85% and ultimately sales by 92%.

Let me cover some of the specific improvements that have allowed us to achieve those results.

First, we brought and continue to bring automation and technology to the quoting process helping us to increase efficiency. Specifically, we've automated the review of the supplemental application, intake of this data into our database underwriting review processes and related agent follow up.

We've also been able to improve the quote turnaround time by simplifying the quote process and leveraging our distribution organization to educate agents, which in turn is driving agent engagement, more completed quotes and increased conversion. With our continued investments, we believe we're well positioned to continue our growth in the small fleet space.

Talking about investments in small fleet, that's a great transition to highlight our plans to move even further upstream in the fleet market.

That's where our recent acquisition of Protective Insurance has been. Before we get to talking about how Protective will help us grow fleet, let's spend a few minutes and talk about Protective, the products Protective offera and the customer they serve.

Let's start with some background. Protective Insurance is located in Carmel, Indiana employing about 500 people. The company has nearly 100 years of experience of providing innovative insurance solutions, primarily for the fleet trucking operations.

Protective operates several statutory insurance companies which are collectively licensed in all 50 states. While Protective will benefit from Progressive's strong balance sheet and financial strength, Progressive will benefit from many of Protective's unique capabilities allowing it to successfully serve the fleet market.

Let's talk about some of those capabilities and the Protective product suite.

Protective serves many of the lines we are very familiar with including commercial auto physical damage, commercial auto liability, non-trucking liability, cargo and general liability. In addition, and very critical to fleet coverage needs, Protective offers workers' comp and occupational accident to coverages that are very additive to Progressive's offering.

In fact, workers' comp reflect the largest statutory commercial coverage in terms of premium, even bigger than commercial auto. As mentioned on the prior slide, this is done through a variety of statutory entities and distribution channels.

Next, let's cover, what customers Protective serves. While we just talked about Progressive's number one position in truck [ph] overall, it's important to note that we've achieved that position primarily by dominating the less than 10 vehicle space. Only recently have we begun investing into our fleet product becoming competitive for fleets of up to 40 total vehicle inclusive of trailers.

We're early in that journey and while we've hit some major milestones and seen some encouraging growth, we realized that there are needed capabilities we would have to build to effectively compete for medium and large fleets. Protective delivers those capabilities, allowing us to move upstream.

Those include sophisticated risk retention rate mechanism, allowing fleet to participate in the risk and indemnity, safety and loss control programs along with underwriting expertise and lastly, rating by mileage and revenue. Independent contractors in the FedEx affinity program are amongst many of Protective's other customers engaged in the rapidly growing last mile delivery space. A sector we expect to continue to expand over the coming years

Switching to profitability. Protective has had a long track record of generating excellent results meeting their respective profit target over a decade. Similarly to Progressive, in doing so, that we're able to outperform the commercial auto industry consistently. While the last few years had been challenge from a profitability perspective, we strongly believe that the right actions have been taken to return to those industry-leading combined ratios.

Specifically, Protective has refocused on its core business which is transportation insurance. In addition, significant rate was take to account for the industry's steep severity trends. We believe this focus on core products and rate take already proving to be successful with the last few quarters showing constant improvement of underwriting results.

In addition, Protective has reinsurance in place to protect from significant adverse development from prior accident years. Those reinsurance treaties ensure that retains severities and tails are consistent with Progressive's established risk appetite.

Finally, I'd like to talk about how Protective is additive to Progressive's product offering and allows us to expand our addressable market.

Clearly, while we're both heavily focused on the commercial auto line we do so with minimal overlap. Progressive is the market leader in the small transportation space, while Protective is a leader in the medium and large transportation fleet space. Together, we're able to serve that market in it's entirety and with Protective's workers' comp capabilities, we are able to establish a foothold into that critical coverage, a coverage that is considered an anchor product in the small-medium and large fleet space.

We look forward to further complementing each other's product offering enabling both entities to grow market share collectively.

Lastly, while we're still early in this acquisition, we look forward to what we call preserve and learn for the remainder of the year, before focusing on further integrating all commercial offerings under the Progressive commercial lines umbrella.

I'd like to take this opportunity to highlight that we intend to maintain the Carmel Indiana operation. This acquisition has always been about growing addressable market and therefore, revenue collectively beyond what each of us would be able to achieve individually.

With that, I'd like to go back to a slide Tricia shared earlier.

This slide shows our addressable market, which has grown to $78 billion with this acquisition, which reflects an increase of more than 25%.

And with that, I will turn it back over to Karen, who will cover our investments in the small insurance space.

Karen Bailo{BIO 22012645 <GO>}
Efforts to meet the broader needs of small business owners are focused on building products and capabilities to support our agency business and to meet the growing demand in the direct channel. We believe customer choice is important and our goal is to continue to work toward customers having options for how they shop for insurance with us.

Our plans include both adding products we develop ourselves as well as offering other carrier products in our in-house agency. In our experience, developing products ourselves works best in our agency business and we will continue to focus on investments that enable us to continue to grow and succeed with our agents.

We're pursuing a different strategy for consumers that come to us directly. In addition to developing our own products, we're offering other carrier products through our in-house agency. That approach is working well for us and it will remain a part of our strategy for that part of our business. In the end, expanding our product offering is all about having a broad enough product portfolio that agents and customers never have to look elsewhere for their insurance needs.

In 2019, we expanded our product offering with our own business owners policy and general liability products. This line of business opens up our addressable market with a product that fits with our customer set and creates an opportunity to extend relationships with our customers.

Similar to commercial auto, our goal is to have a streamlined intuitive quote flow and competitive pricing derived from expense discipline and price segmentation. We initially limited our appetite to the first five categories in this table.

They are big enough to matter, allow us to develop pricing and segmentation skills and allow for a straightforward streamline quoting and binding process. We've since added a sixth BMT, lessors risk.

We've limited our appetite in this category to those commercial rental properties that meet our underwriting criteria in the other five. The six categories depicted on this screen account for about half of the 31 million small businesses in the U.S. with fewer than 20 employees.

As we did last year with lessors risk, we will continue to expand the categories over time as we gain experience and identify additional opportunities to automate the quoting and underwriting flow. Today, this business is in the agency channel and agents continue to add real value in small business insurance.

We chose to deploy our BOP product in the agency channel first and have designed the product systems and experiences to succeed with agents. At the same time, we kept an eye on requirements for the digital channel and last year introduced our product in our in-house agency and our online quoting platform for small business owners.

We officially launched our product in May of 2019 and finished the year with four states. Last year, all things considered, we finished strong launching 13 new states and introducesd an updated product model and building on the momentum from 2020, we launched four additional states through the end of the second quarter and four more in July.

So we're now in states representing just over 50% of the commercial multi-peril market and we expect to roll out another 9 to 10 states this year and that would result in a state footprint that represents about 67% of the commercial multi-peril market. Feedback we've received from our agents supports our assessment that we have an easy to use quoting and underwriting experience, and competitive products.

We're happy with our momentum and we'll continue to look for opportunities to accelerate our progress, where we can continue to grow profitably.

I mentioned earlier that we're pursuing a different strategy for consumers that come to us directly. We built an in-house agency to sell other carrier products and we're having terrific success in growing our direct small commercial business.

In September, 2018, we introduced Business Quote Explorer, which is our online quoting platform for small business owners. With that addition consumers have a full range of options for how to shop for their small business insurance with us. Going forward, we will work to optimize the experience in both of these paths.

There will be times when the self-directed online path is the best option for a customer and others when calling in for phone support will be the best option. We're happy with this approach of the strategy to meet the demand from consumers who are coming to us directly for their small business insurance needs.

Our small business direct efforts are going well, we've been selling direct commercial insurance for more than a decade and have made investments in assets and capabilities to meet the growing demand from commercial prospects, as well as our own customers.

Now pandemic related shopping patterns do appear to be accelerating the move to online shopping in commercial insurance.and we're well positioned for that move. Our marketing efforts are maturing and generating demand. And we have a good stable of carriers including our own manufactured BOP and GL product and we've got an easy to use quoting platform.

As a result of our investments and an increase in online shopping, growth has accelerated considerably. And with the investments we're making to drive demand and then meet that demand with ample supply and great experiences, we have every confidence in our ability to continue to accelerate growth within the small business direct channel.

Now, the ultimate goal is to relationships with our customers and provide more reasons to stay. We know customers who have more products with us retain longer.

When looking at our business, auto and contractor commercial auto customers with multiple products, we see that those with another personal lines product stay with us 5% to 7% longer and those with a BOP products stay about 11% longer. Now we expect policy life expectancy to further extend with more targeted efforts to grow our multi-product customers.

Beyond launching new products like our BOP and GL product, we're also working to make it easier to bundle more with us. Our aspirations include making it easier to purchase multiple products across commercial lines and personal lines and new business and to add products as insurance needs grow.

You've heard us describe our aspirations of relationships with our customers lasting for decades or longer. We're making significant progress and expect over time our commercial relationships will contribute to increasing the number of customers that have chosen to stay with Progressive for a decade or longer.

This is all part of our broader vision to become consumers' and agents' number one choice and destination for auto, home and other insurance. And we're excited to have considerable under penetrated addressable market in front of us, where we have the people skills and assets to succeed.

Thanks for your time today. And now we'll move on to the Q&A portion of our session.

Doug Constantine{BIO 22182643 <GO>}
This concludes the previously recorded portion of today's event.

We now have members of our management team available live to answer questions including Karen Bailo and Jochen Schunter who can answer questions about our Commercial Lines presentation.

The Q&A session will be audio only. (Operator Instructions). We will now take our first question from the phone. Olivia.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Our first question coming from the line of Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo. Your line is now open.

Q - Elyse Greenspan{BIO 17263315 <GO>}
Hi, thanks,. Good morning. My first question. I believe there has been some regulatory push back on in some states including Nevada, Texas and Ohio to some rates that you guys have filed for on, so how does Progressive respond in situations where you're not getting the rate that you need?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thanks, Elyse. This is Tricia. We respond with data. So we have data that is showing steep trends in severity and our need to get raised on the street and we provide that and try to work with our regulators to get those pushed through. In the long run, we want to make sure we're available for consumers and we can only be available if we're able to reach our objective of growing as fast as we can, more importantly, at a 96 combined ratio or less.

So we continue to work with regulators. We've had some good success in Texas as you mentioned, every state has little nuances continue to work side-by-side to do the right things for our collective consumers and customers.

Q - Elyse Greenspan{BIO 17263315 <GO>}
And then in the presentation that we just heard I believe you guys were talking about seeing speeding at higher levels and not going back to like pre-pandemic level. I know that was specific to commercial auto, but it sounds like that's perhaps something we're seeing within commercial and personal auto. So do you think that this is a new normal because if there is higher level of speeding right then there could be much more severe accidents and you think some of the higher severity trends within both commercial and personal auto are perhaps here to stay even after we fully come out of the pandemic?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
That's a great question. On the commercial side, we're seeing both congestion and speeding up. On the personal line side, we still haven't seen commuting congestion back to pre-pandemic.

I think we're just going to have to watch that I think we thought we were sort of coming out of the pandemic and now of course with some of the new local ordinances will that change, will people stay at home and work from home longer we imagine that might happen. So that could continue to have speeding at a higher rate.

I think miles traveled as well when you think about, we opened up. People were excited to get on the road, go on vacations with their family, go see grandpa, but you're right on the severity of accidents, and we're going to have to watch that trend and see what happens when we get to some normalcy post pandemic on commuting and congestion, as well as speeding.

Q - Elyse Greenspan{BIO 17263315 <GO>}
And then one last one in terms of like you mentioned you haven't seen drive to work miles fully go back, if you were going to look at your book between the non-standard and the standard on the personal auto side, have you seen of the drive to work perhaps pick up more on the non-standard side with maybe there is a lot work from home flexibility?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah. When we look at our UBI miles we sort of compare it to some occupations that would be more available to work from home and that wouldn't. And so, we do see differences in those as well as even age groups in terms of if I'm retired, I am able to stay home. So we watch those closely as well. But remember we price all of our customers to lifetime 96 and that's what we work towards.

Q - Elyse Greenspan{BIO 17263315 <GO>}
Okay, thanks for the color.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thanks, Elyse.

Operator
Our second question coming from the line of Michael Phillips with Morgan Stanley, your line is open.

Q - Michael Phillips{BIO 21023048 <GO>}
Hey, thanks, good morning. Kind of a follow-up question to the first question that you just answered, Tricia, you said that you respond with data, high level question on that, I guess the regulatory question is, the nuts and bolts of the question is, is it tougher to push for rates today than a normal environment? And what I mean by that is, I think there's a pretty clear contrast today, unlike in other periods where the experience period you used to do your rate filings is pretty profitable unlike the projection period where there is clearly some deterioration and not only deterioration but questions on how long that deterioration might last? Is the severity short lived, is the frequency short-lived as well? So some questions around that against the backdrop of a pretty profitable experience period that you're using for your rate filings. So does that backdrop make it harder to push for rate filings than it normally would?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
I think it is more of a challenge, but remember we are looking in the rearview mirror. We're looking ahead and looking at the severity trends because we price for those in the future. So while it's been a challenge in some venues, we continue to work towards that. And again, we'll watch it closely and just like we did during the pandemic, after we gave the over $1 billion back on the private passenger auto side for the credit we looked across because we knew that consumers were struggling when there was layoffs, et cetera.

We looked across states and channels and products and took rates down a little bit. And so that's really the conversation we're having with regulators, we're going to always trying to do the right thing to grow as fast as we can. But we have to make our target profit margins and what we're seeing now is some pretty steep severity trends and again, we'll watch for that we'll watch for any macroeconomic inflationary trends and the like to understand what our future rate should be.

Q - Michael Phillips{BIO 21023048 <GO>}
Okay, thank you.

Second question, kind of goes towards whether the personal auto margin deterioration is, are there certain pockets where it's worse than others and what I mean there is, you mentioned in the cue a couple of things that might make one think so, reduced marketing spend in certain areas, number one, number two tightening the underwriting criteria for certain consumer segments. So those two things combined make you think that maybe there certain pockets where it's worse and I guess, is that true or is it more just generally across the board because of what's happening with driving levels come back to normal levels?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, it's really the margin erosion is really across the board in terms of frequency trends getting closer to pre-pandemic severity trends up, whether it's injury or used parts and then of course our average written premium was down.

When we look at media, when we talk about that we look at our less efficient media. So it's not necessarily based on a certain customer we look across the board and say okay this is our cost per sale et cetera, and here's what we believe we can get for that. On the other side, we really tried to avoid what we believe could be under priced risks.

And so we developed an underwriting program, many, many years ago just to ask a few more questions to understand how to appropriately rate each of our customers to the appropriate risk. So a little bit different viewpoint from when we look at media, and we look at bringing on risks that we believe are under-priced.

A - John Sauerland{BIO 15055737 <GO>}
I'd just tag on that to say in markets where we are struggling to get rate back to the previous question, we are more likely to push harder on the underwriting leverage, so in markets where profitability has struggled recently and we've yet to be able to raise price, you'll see the underwriting levers tighter than in a market where we're more confident about profitability.

Q - Michael Phillips{BIO 21023048 <GO>}
Okay, makes sense. Thank you, guys.

Operator
And our next question coming from the line of David Martin Lennon with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.

Q - David Martin Lennon{BIO 19498621 <GO>}
Hi, thanks, good morning. Just another question, just on the rate filings and just wondering if you could share what you're contemplating for future frequency and severity from second quarter levels, do you assume that those continue to get much worse or at the same levels or is it going to take some time before you get more actual experience and more results that you can include in the filings before you think you can get data to justify the rate changes?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Well, I mean you think the fact that we're going to continue to take rates means that we expect some future positive trend. It will be tough to say, we'll watch it. And our belief is that long-term trends from a frequency perspective. We believe that there is a chance it could go up to pre-pandemic levels, but if you look at over the last 50 or 60 years frequency trends have gone down based on safer cars and more strict laws, et cetera.

Severity has more than offset that whether it's injury attorney reps, or or components of vehicles and we believe that can continue. We hope that it abates a little bit, but if you look forward a couple of years, we would hope that they would be more normalized.So we could have that sense of normalcy.

Now, it's been comparisons are also difficult but we watch those closely and we believe that as of now, obviously, we talked about the rate filings that we have done in quarter two that will continue to be fairly aggressive with rates.

Q - David Martin Lennon{BIO 19498621 <GO>}
Got it, thanks. And just thinking about, I think you said you're, you are looking at 5% rate increases location specific In the second quarter. Is that sort of the amount you think you need to take across the entire book, if I look at it, I think, loss costs versus '19 were up a couple percent in the second quarter versus Q2 '19 and it looks like you took maybe three or four points of rate.So is the intention to get back to sort of the '19 loss ratio level with 5% rate increase?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Also the 5% is the average increase, and it was an aggregate of 2%, but we do look very specifically across states, across channels, across products, so there won't be a flat rate across any one of those venues, we will look at where we needed the most to get to our target lifetime profit margin.

So we will give you the averages, because we're not going to go into specifics, but I would tell you that it's very different depending on the states and what we're seeing in both frequency and severity.

Q - David Martin Lennon{BIO 19498621 <GO>}
Got it. Thank you.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thanks.

Operator
Our next question coming from the line of Josh Shanker with Bank of America. Your line is open.

Q - Josh Shanker{BIO 5292022 <GO>}
Yeah, good morning everyone. I want to talk about a year ago or 18 months ago when the pandemic came on and you made decisions to refund money to customers, to cut price, to increase advertising spend in order to get a new pool of customers and certainly the growth was very strong during the pandemic. To what extent are those customers that you pulled on and brought on the book achieving the lifetime value of 96% or better and to what extent is this period of compressed margins following with what you expected to happen as you put these customers on your book and frequency came back to normal levels?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, I mean I think we did the right thing during the pandemic and things have been very volatile and very fluid. And so in terms of our sort of Holy Grail is retention. So we're going to do what we can to keep those customers at the target profit margin, the increases will flow into renewal business and we expect that that could cause people to shop and we get that.

But what we want is and our choice of growth is policies in force. We want to continue that growth. We know that we need to have the right rates on the street and then we've talked about that a lot. Our objective for many, many years many decades, has been to grow as fast as we can at or below 96 and profit comes first in that order. It's one of our core values. So we'll continue to look at that.

How we treat these circumstances are things that we've done before and so not to this extent because we've never been involved in a pandemic. But we've been in these circumstances before. In fact, if you go back in time, 2012, we had similar circumstances where we found that we needed rates at that time, actually, John Sauerland our CFO was the Personal Lines President, and I was the President of claims and we set forth to get the right rate keeping as many customers as we could, that's really important. And that worked and we were able to grow. But probably the most important example would be in 2016, when we found ourselves over our 96 call and we reduced expenses and a little bit of marketing and really positioned ourselves well for huge growth. And in fact in the last five years, we have grown policies in force on the private passenger auto side, greater than 70%.

So how we're looking at today is, we believe we did the right thing for customers during the pandemic. We have seen trends steepen at a pretty quick rate. We're going to get the rate we need to get back and be well-positioned for that growth that we believe we will comp, should we head into a hard market.

Q - Josh Shanker{BIO 5292022 <GO>}
And then, I think you said that March 17 was either the best or the second best shopping day in the company's history, I think you probably put on a lot of Sam's or inconsistently insured customers. To what extent is the huge growth over the past 18 months and really even just a few months ago having a new customer penalty on top of your overall book?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
While we have had a lot of Sams, we had a lot of growth overall and I talked in my most recent letter about our growth in Robinsons and again comparisons are tough as well because of the large growth we've had in Robinsons in some of our preferred. But yeah, we've brought on a fair amount of stands and again we are fine with Sam's coming on the book as long as we are priced to our target profit margins.

A - John Sauerland{BIO 15055737 <GO>}
And that's a little bit more than, Josh. So we have what we call cohort targets by segment by segment, we call them our consumer marketing tiers. But we also think by channel direct versus agency a new versus renewal and obviously geographically and our product managers are constant looking at their performance relative to those cohort target.

So for example, the new Sam direct customer has it target obviously new business, we're going to spend a lot to acquire Sam, we're going to want to recoup that quickly on the renewal to make sure we were in that lifetime 96. So regardless of the climate we're in and those product managers are monitoring their performance versus those targets and where we're not meeting them, they're going to take action to make sure they meet.

So we do manage to the calendar combined ratio as a company, for sure, and that's what we say, our goal is beneath that product managers are managing to those segments, to those cohort targets. Does that help a little?

Q - Josh Shanker{BIO 5292022 <GO>}
Certainly. Thank you very much for the answers.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thanks, Josh.

Operator
And our next question coming from the line of Ryan Tunis with Autonomous Research. Your line is open.

Q - Ryan Tunis{BIO 16502263 <GO>}
Thanks. I had a couple on severity and one on growth.

The first one is, I mean just thinking about the so frequencies almost back to pre-pandemic levels. It makes sense, it was down to half originally, but in any event we're going to get back there. Severity was plus seven in 2019, plus 10 in 2020 and this quarter was plus eight. So it's not exactly clear to me why this severity numbers all that surprising. So I'm just trying to square all this and understand why we only started taking rate in this past quarter?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Well, so we've seen severity trends go up in injuries. What we probably under predicted on severity was the used car valuations and not just the magnitude but the length of time the duration and, we did look at that for future trends not to the extent of what we're seeing. And again, that's something that's been very different during the pandemic, in terms of supply and demand and what is happening with new cars in the lack of available ships, et cetera.

So I would say that was probably a miss on our part. Slightly, just because we hadn't seen that. We did see it going up, but not to the extent of the duration of time. And then the injuries we continue to look at. Attorney rep rate continues to go up and we're seeing attorneys earlier in the claims sort of across regions and across limit profiles and there could be a lot of (inaudible) on that, it could be that there is more advertising on the attorney part, it could be that if you're working from home or that you're not working, you're seeing more advertising in order to call that attorney.

But we are seeing attorney reps earlier in the claims than we have in the past.

Q - Ryan Tunis{BIO 16502263 <GO>}
Got it. Yeah, it's all like why you guys were quoting numbers this last quarter, people were talking more about the property and selection but I mean, clearly we're seeing some social inflation on the BI side. Is there one that you'd say you are more concerned about kind of the casualty type loss trend versus the property loss trend in auto?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
I mean for the casualty trend, you know, obviously you want to gear arms around attorney reps because those claims are more expensive, take longer and not necessarily a great experience. We've seen on the private passenger auto because we've seen speeding up, there has been more severe accidents, we've seen labor hours increase and number of parts increase.

So that's a little bit different. On the property side, and we had 25 points of CAT exposure. And so I think we are looking at a little bit different geographic expansion to make sure that we, in a sense derisk a little bit of that book. And then in addition on the property side, we want to be able to continue to get rate as we've had, as we have since last year, and have a more segmented products.

So it's a little bit different way we're looking at it ultimately to get to the same endpoint of 96 combined ratio.

Q - Ryan Tunis{BIO 16502263 <GO>}
Got it. And then just lastly when you describe these trends is broad based across all states and customer segments or is it more localized, it's more Sams, it's more Robinsons, that type of thing.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
The trends on the attorney rep have been across all regions and they've gone up in then different rates with limit profiles. So that's been across the board. Property, it really is much more specific in states where there is more weather volatility.

Q - Ryan Tunis{BIO 16502263 <GO>}
Understood. Thank you.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Our next question coming from the line of Tracy Benguigui with Barclays. Your line is open.

Q - Tracy Benguigui{BIO 21808177 <GO>}
Thank you. I don't mean to beat a dead horse here, but is it your impression that regulators are discounting the 2020 year as an anomaly, but relying on 2019 data for indicated rate needs, which may be problematic given the higher premiums at the time and less elevated severity, at least that's what I thought. Texas explicitly mentioning in 2019 data?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, it's hard for me to be in and see the regulator, I think they're trying to do the best thing, they are trying to do for their constituents as we are and so that's why we share data, we talk it through and we try to do the right thing, which again is availability for the consumers whether it be Texas or any other state.

So it's hard for me to say what the regulators looking at. I think they always want to make sure that there's affordability for the consumers that they represent.

Q - Tracy Benguigui{BIO 21808177 <GO>}
Okay. Yeah, I just wanted to know if there is any way that you could make headway or there may just be a difference of opinion just given you're looking at different parameters?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Probably a little both.

Q - Tracy Benguigui{BIO 21808177 <GO>}
Okay and then just speaking of rate increases. I mean I saw also you took a 6.1% rate increase in Florida. And I'm just wondering how much that has to do with PIP? I understand there is a debate going on right now if insurer to pay 80% of the claims regardless where it lies on the fee schedule, can you just remind us your conservatism on that spectrum?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, I had a lot to do with PIP, a lot to do with injury increases as well that we've talked about in terms of severity but Florida has always been volatile with PIP and interpretations of PIP in plaintiff attorneys. And so we are pricing to that and we've seen a lot as we've told you of reopens based on recent decisions.

Q - Tracy Benguigui{BIO 21808177 <GO>}
So any concerns over prior period that could result in adverse reserve development.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
For Florida PIP, I think we've seen lastly reports than we've anticipated in 2020 which is on the PIP side. I don't know if there is any prior. I think it's been the last couple of years, I think prior to that, I would say '18 and '19 and '20 and not as much '18.

A - Jochen G. Schunter
That's great characterization and frankly, Florida PIP even going back further than that has been a challenge to price accurately because courts decide what they decide and that changes a lot of the past claims decisions that were made and a lot of problems get reopened. So, as we pointed out, we have had adverse development in Florida PIP past couple few years. And if you go back a decade, we had similar.

The good news is over the longer term. We've been very successful in the Florida market We have great share there and we want to continue to grow in Florida as long as we're in that 96, right now as you pointed out, we are taking actions to address the combined in Florida, but again over long term we're very confident and happy to grow in Florida.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
And the last thing I'll say on that is, we were very happy that the governor vetoed the latest PIP reform because we thought that would not be good for consumers of Florida. And so we always work with regulators to make sure we have the right rates there and it's a complicated state line with which the long term we've done well.

Q - Tracy Benguigui{BIO 21808177 <GO>}
Thank you.

A - Doug Constantine{BIO 22182643 <GO>}
We do have a question on the web asking about Texas in commercial and personal lines loss trends and what actions we are taking to improve profitability in Texas?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
We are taking rate.

A - Doug Constantine{BIO 22182643 <GO>}
Very good. Olivia, next question.

Operator
Our next question coming from the line of Greg Peters with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Q - Greg Peters{BIO 3111497 <GO>}
Good morning. Thank you for fitting me in to your schedule. My first question will be on your comments around the targeted 96 combined ratio. You're talking about growing into other lines of commercial and the capital requirements for some of these other lines in embedded in commercial are going to be different than the capital requirements you have for other parts of your personal auto business and it also frankly is applicable to your property business as well. I'm just curious if your 96 targeted combined ratio changes depending on the capital requirements on the type of business that you're in?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah and then remember our 96 is the aggregate, so 96 is slightly different and is not for public consumption, but it's slightly different in different areas depending on that. What we look at also is what we want that ROE to be in any part of the business and we work towards that. Anytime you have a new business, obviously you have a big learning experience when we went into the direct private passenger auto, we didn't make money for many years as we learned and grew and so we expect that to happen as well as we learn new businesses and have our arms around trends and as we grow.

That's one of the reasons why except for the Protective acquisition, which is very different because they know what they're doing on larger fleet. We sort of try to grow into that. So a great example is fleets for many, many years we did 0 to 9 power units, we felt we had our arms around that. We were a leader in that. And now we've gone 10 to 40. So we tried to learn along the way. Same thing with small business, we're starting with micro businesses less than 20 employees to make sure that we learn as we grow and expand that addressable market.

Q - Greg Peters{BIO 3111497 <GO>}
Just like to clarify your answer on that. On the property business, you've been running above 100 combined ratio for five years now, how much longer will it be above 100 before it starts stops being a drag on your consolidated results?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Hopefully not long because we were not happy with that either. I talked a little bit about the geographic footprint and how we are taking actions to be not have such a high percentage in states that have much more weather volatility because as we said that 25 points on the property CR. It takes time. It doesn't happen overnight. And we've had just a lot of headwinds from that perspective. So I can't tell you the length of time, but we're working aggressively towards derisking geographically, even if we need to slow down on getting the right rates on the streets and making sure that we continue to segments our property models as deeply as we segmented our private passenger auto and commercial auto.

Q - Greg Peters{BIO 3111497 <GO>}
Great.

A - Jochen G. Schunter
I might elaborate the picture there. So we are not intending to run property above 100 and in fact as Tricia was noting we look at ROE across our business lines and as you note required capital. We also look at expected investment returns because the duration of claims is different across lines as well but we target ROEs across the businesses that are equal to or better than private passenger auto, and we back into target combined ratios.

So for home as you would expect, given the higher capital requirements, the combined ratio target is going to be richer. We took 12 points of rate in home last year we're on track to do similarly, this year and as Tricia noted, we're taking a lot of actions to get a better geographic footprint that we think reduces the impact of storm losses going forward. If you look back at our recent history. The primary driver of being over 100 has been weather losses. And here, it's been difficult to model difficult the price, we're into newer markets we're learning and we are taking we think aggressive actions to get back combined ratio where we want it, which is well below 100.

Q - Greg Peters{BIO 3111497 <GO>}
Thank you for clarifying that. My second question, and I know it's really small relative to your overall book but you did spend a portion of your presentation talking about it and that's Protective and how you plan to use that in part is part of your commercial lines expansion strategy. And if I look at Protective results over the last three years really haven't been able to grow at all. They are saddled with one large customer and their combined ratio results have certainly been well above what Progressive likes to target. So I'm just curious if you could just give us a sense of what you see within Protective that helps you gain confidence that it's going to fit well within your overall strategy?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, I think, first of all, if you look at Protective in the rates they have taken as they've seen their steep severity trends in 2019. They saw that and they've been, working towards and we're seeing the fruits of that, but more importantly that addressable market that we saw. So they put us upstream into larger fleet, workers' comp which is a really important piece for small and medium fleet. So although we didn't talk a lot about what we believe we can do together long term and we're going to spend this next six months, since we literally just closed in June, we're going to spend this next six months understanding synergies, learning from each other and then getting a very firm game plan on what we think we can achieve in the next five years.

Q - Greg Peters{BIO 3111497 <GO>}
Thank you for your answers.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
And our next question coming from the line of Meyer Shields with KBW. Your line is now open.

Q - Meyer Shields{BIO 4281064 <GO>}
Great, thanks. Going back to the, I guess capital requirement and combined ratio constraints by line of business. If we're still at 96 overall and other lines of business, probably have to come in lower. Should we understand that auto on its own can go above 96 and it will be within the company constraints?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
You could understand that what we look at, is very different how we expense it as well. So on the direct side is front-loaded versus more variable on the agency side, it's different depending on the venue, et cetera. But again, the aggregate is 96 and now we look at each of those different areas, whether it's product or channel to get there.

Q - Meyer Shields{BIO 4281064 <GO>}
Okay. I think that's maybe related question. And again it's on Florida with the rate filings actually requested an increase that was below the indication. And I was wondering if you could talk to the considerations of when that would come into play.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Would you repeat the question.

Q - Meyer Shields{BIO 4281064 <GO>}
Yeah, so, I'm sorry. Looking at a recent Florida rate filing, there was a requested increase that was about half of the indicated rate increase and I was wondering if you could talk through the considerations of when you'd make that sort of filing.

A - Pat Callahan{BIO 1416552 <GO>}
Sure. This is Pat Callahan, Personal Lines President. So typically in some states, there will be a templated indication and then there is our indication and when there's a lot of uncertainty as we look at our future trends we will fill out the template as required to from a file and compliance perspective, but then we apply a lot of judgment to kind of how much we actually want to take to balanced growth and profitability for the business. So we recognize that and states that are relatively open to file and then use rates like Florida, we want to take smaller bites at the apple over time to ensure that we're not balancing our customers are increasing rates faster than necessary.

So in the Florida specific case, I expect we're in there frequently and we will be in there at least once or twice more throughout the remainder of the year.

Q - Meyer Shields{BIO 4281064 <GO>}
Okay, perfect. Thank you so much.

Operator
Our next question coming from the line of Gary Ransom with Dowling & Company. Your line is open.

Q - Gary Ransom{BIO 3446828 <GO>}
Yes, good morning. I wanted to ask about small commercial and specifically you were talking about more activity in the direct side for the BOP product, is there anything you can talk about on the propensity to buy online. I thought about it as somewhat of a slower moving demographic trend, but are there customers that have been through an agent for 25 years and now suddenly that they like online and starting to buy it that way?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yeah, I think what you're seeing is one of our strategic pillars in place, not a broad coverage we want to be where, when and how customers want to shop. And so there are, customers because it's a little bit more complicated, especially if this is your dream your first business venture, you want to make sure you're protected and you have a lot of questions. And so typically and it continues to be the majority of the business have gone through agents on that coverage we've opened up Business Quote Explorer for those customers not unlike we did years ago on the auto side when we opened up direct that feel comfortable with what they need to get there and as you see that's gone up a couple of percentages increasing on the direct side which we are not surprised and I think especially with the pandemic where there was less availability even though a lot of people weren't necessarily opening small businesses. But there was less availability of agents versus direct just based on shelter in place opportunities that we saw that change.

I would expect that more and more customers that have not ever worked with an agent will continue to go online and that that percentage would increase. We're going to have to continue to get savvy with our investments on the Business Quote Explorer side, but that's, we believe a really great opportunity. We love the fact that we have a big agent presence, but there will be customers that want to go through direct and we will be there for them as part of our strategic pillar of broad coverage.

A - John Sauerland{BIO 15055737 <GO>}
Gary, I would add to that. One part of it is demand other part is fulfillment and across auto over time, the roperty and now commercial we've gotten a lot better online meeting a far better experience and we're starting to roll out the ability to buy online. And we see as we continue to improve the experience, make sure customers can get smoothly through quotes and actually buy online.

The fulfillment piece of that equation is improving a lot and in the direct business to the extent you are making that side of the funnel, if you will, more efficient, it's really powerful in your ability to continue to grow that business because the more efficient you are fulfilling the more you can spend upfront to acquire customers.

Q - Gary Ransom{BIO 3446828 <GO>}
Is there any specific item you would identify as important to that fulfillment piece and is there fewer questions or things along those lines?

A - Jochen G. Schunter
Well the ability to buy online is very, very important. So people go through at online quote their expectation generally, we think is, I mean, some people want to call for clarification assurance,et cetera. But many people expect to be able to click a button and buy and we find when we elevate that interstate and this goes back to when we were doing this a long time ago in auto, we're now doing property and now in commercial when we elevate that ability., the conversion rate goes up.

Q - Gary Ransom{BIO 3446828 <GO>}
Great, thanks very much.

Operator
And our next question coming from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS. Your line is open.

Q - Brian Meredith{BIO 3108204 <GO>}
Hi, thanks. You just one quick question here, and I think kind of a follow-up to previous question, Tricia. I know the personal auto care recently did take a reserve charge related to participating versus limited rate scheduled in the court decision in Florida. How did you interpret that decision and does that factor in how you think about your reserve position in Florida PIP?

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yes, Brian. Thanks. So I think you're referring to the limited charge and that we have.

Q - Brian Meredith{BIO 3108204 <GO>}
Yeah.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Yes, we accrued for that as well as a couple of other that has happened over the last couple of years and so we look at that, we work with the claims organization to understand. Even though, we don't necessarily disagree with the decision that the DCA agree with that and we are still challenging that.

That said, we want to extinguish those exposures and move on because by the time it gets through the court system, possibly to the Supreme Court it takes many years and so we, we have our reserves and our unfavorable reserve. So we've taken that cadence into account.

Q - Brian Meredith{BIO 3108204 <GO>}
Great, thank you. I appreciate it.

A - Tricia Griffith{BIO 5482375 <GO>}
Thanks.

A - Doug Constantine{BIO 22182643 <GO>}
We've exhausted our scheduled time. And so that concludes our event.

Olivia, I will hand the call back over to you for the closing scripts.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes Progressive Corporation's First Quarter Investor Event. Information about a replay of the event will be available on the Investor Relations section of Progressive website for the next year. You may now disconnect