Q1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Bill Bullock, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Dominic Macklon, Senior Vice President of Strategy, Exploration, and Technology
Ellen DeSanctis, Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations and Investor Relations
Nick Olds, Senior Vice President, Global Operations
Ryan Lance, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tim Leach, Executive Vice President, Lower 48
Other Participants
Bob Brackett, Analyst, Bernstein Research
Doug Leggate, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Jeanine Wai, Analyst, Barclays
John Freeman, Analyst, Raymond James
Josh Silverstein, Analyst, Wolfe Research
Leo Mariani, Analyst, KeyBanc
Neal Dingmann, Analyst, Truist Securities
Neil Mehta, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Paul Cheng, Analyst, Scotiabank
Philip Gresh, Analyst, JPMorgan
Raphael Dubois, Analyst, Societe Generale
Roger Read, Analyst, Wells Fargo
Ryan Todd, Analyst, Simmons Energy
Steven Richardson, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the First Quarter 2021 ConocoPhillips Earnings Conference Call. My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Ellen DeSanctis. Ellen, you may begin.

Ellen DeSanctis{BIO 2230093 <GO>}
Thank you, Hilda. Hello and welcome this morning to our listeners. I'll first introduce the members of our ConocoPhillips executive team who are on today's call. We have Ryan Lance, our Chairman and CEO; Bill Bullock, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Tim Leach, our Executive Vice President of the Lower 48; Dominic Macklon RSVP of Strategy and Technology; and Nick Olds our SVP of Global Operations.

Today's several of our executives will make prepared remarks and then the team will take your questions. Before I turn the call over to Ryan, a few quick reminders. In conjunction with this morning's press release, we posted a short deck of supplemental material that includes first quarter highlights, earnings and cash flow summaries, operational highlights and updated sensitivities.

We also announced this morning that ConocoPhillips will host a virtual market update on June 30th, so save that date. We will be providing details on that meeting shortly.

In today's call, we will make some forward-looking statements based on current expectations. Actual results could differ due to the factors described in today's press release and in our periodic SEC filings. And finally, we'll also refer to some non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations to the nearest corresponding GAAP measure can be found in this morning's press release and on our website.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Ryan.

Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Thank you. Ellen, and welcome to all our call participants. It's a very busy but exciting time at ConocoPhillips. With the Concho transaction now closed, our entire workforce is on a mission to emerge from last year's extreme sector volatility and the transaction integration activities as the strongest competitor in our business.

We're viewing 2021 as a catalyst moment like we did in 2016 to improve every aspect of our business and again step out from the pack by taking our disciplined shareholder friendly value proposition to the next level. We're taking actions across every aspect of the company to improve our underlying drivers and our first quarter results represent an early indication of our progress.

Some of the actions we're taking are transformational such as capturing synergies, others are chipping away at drivers to improve efficiency and returns, such as the debt reduction plans we announced this morning. Here's what everyone in our organization is focused on.

First, we believe a safe company is a successful one. With the Concho transaction, we've combined two industry-recognized safety leaders, which has aided our overall integration. And again I want to recognize our workforce for their exceptional handling of the many challenges presented by the winter storm Uri last quarter.

We're continuously driving to lower the cost and supply of our diverse resource base. We have a deep inventory of the very best rocks, which is a clear source of sustained competitive advantage that we're always working to further high grade the portfolio through asset sales. But our low cost inventory alone isn't enough. We're focused on applying our rigorous capital allocation process to optimize investments based on the metrics investors demand, free cash flow and returns. We're driving improvements in free cash flow and returns by driving down our sustaining capital through well cost and supply chain efficiencies as well as margin improvement.

Driving down our cost structure through synergies and balance sheet improvements, driving down our sustaining price of the combination of lower sustaining capital at a lower cost structure, and finally we don't cap the benefit from higher prices, which means upside and free cash flow above our sustaining price.

We're only a short time into the Concho integration, but we're already seeing the previously announced synergies materialize and we expect to yield additional benefits as our integration progresses. We remain committed to returning a significant portion of capital to our shareholders with a 5-year track record of exceeding our target of greater than 30% of CFO. In fact our return to shareholders since implementing our returns focused strategy in 2016, has been 43% of cumulative CFO.

So our capital return approach represents a floor on the level of capital returns not (inaudible). We don't tie our returns to free cash flow like others are doing, so in other words, investors directly benefit from CFO expansion including from higher prices when they occur.

And as you saw in today's release, we're taking actions to further increase our returns of capital in 2021. In addition to our ordinary dividend and our previously announced 1.5 billion of buybacks, we intend to begin reducing our Cenovus ownership stake, using proceeds to purchase incremental ConocoPhillips stock.

We're taking action to further strengthen our balance sheet. This morning, we also announced that we're planning to reduce gross debt by $5 billion over the next five years, this will reduce our annual interest expense cost and help lower our sustaining price. And finally, we're focused on leading in ESG especially in emissions reductions. All of this is underpinned by our talented, motivated workforce, they are the driving force in our progress.

You can tell from my comments that we're encouraged by the improvements we're seeing across the company. That's why we announced in today's press release, our intention to accelerate our 2021 market update from November to a virtual event on June 30.

Now, here's what you can expect that update. We'll reiterate our discipline philosophy for the business and how we expect to enhance our through cycle performance for a volatile price world, but also for more stable price world should that transpire. We'll reaffirm the allocation priorities that have been foundational to our company for years.

Compared to our plan two years ago, we believe every part of the business has improved, and our goal is to put ConocoPhillips in an even better position to deliver multiple years of free cash flow and returns to shareholders post Concho. We'll provide an update on our outlook for 2021 and beyond including our synergy capture progress and our business driver improvements. We will also provide updates on our asset base and our ESG efforts and plans.

As I said earlier, it's a busy time for the company, but we're going to take advantage of our momentum to reengage the market sooner rather than later on our compelling future. Now let me turn the call over to Bill, who will address high level quarterly results as well as our announced debt reduction and Cenovus COP share plans.

Bill Bullock{BIO 20958520 <GO>}
Thanks Ryan. Well, we're certainly off to a good start in 2021. In today's posted materials, there is a summary of highlights from the first quarter. And I'll cover just a few of those items.

As we foreshadowed in our March 31 market update, the financial results reflected some one-time Concho related items. Adjusted for these known items underlying financial performance was very strong. Adjusted earnings were $0.69 per share versus $0.45 per share in the first quarter last year.

Production came in at the high end of the range and all producing segments generated positive earnings in the quarter. As shown in the cash waterfall in the supplemental materials posted on our website, first quarter cash from operations was $2.1 billion and free cash flow was $0.9 billion. These figures include the cash flow impacts related to previously announced Concho related items, which reduce both CFO and free cash flow by about $1 billion.

But even with the roughly $1 billion in one-time transaction related impacts,our CFO of $2.1 billion very nearly covered capital, dividends, and buybacks. We returned 46%, of CFO to shareholders in the quarter in the form of our ordinary dividend and share repurchases and we ended the quarter with $7.3 billion of cash in short-term investments.

As a reminder, we issued updated first quarter and full year 2021 guidance for key business drivers on March 31. And today we provided updated cash and earnings sensitivities. I call your attention to these, because our cash flow towards to the upside has improved significantly as a result of the Concho transaction. And in a more constructive price world, we're going to differentially capture the benefit of higher prices were unhedged, where liquids weighted and we have exposure to diverse markets globally.

Turning to today's announcements, we view our balance sheet as a strategic asset just like we do our portfolio of low cost of supply resource and our balance sheet is very strong with top-tier leverage due to our low net debt. And of course, our cash balance is our component of our net debt and given better borrowing costs exceed the returns on our cash, we plan to put some of that incremental cash to work along with future free cash flow to reduce gross debt by $5 billion over the next five years.

This will reduce our ongoing interest expense, lower our ongoing free cash flow breakeven price, improve returns and create greater flexibility on our overall debt structure, all while maintaining our strong leverage position. As part of our program, we may refinance some of our high coupon debt to take advantage of historically low interest rates and facilitate the total quantum of our debt reduction over time.

Next, I'll address the Cenovus share monetization plan we announced. As a reminder, we own approximately 10% of Cenovus, which is valued at about $1.6 billion today. The shares were received as part of the consideration for our sale Canadian assets to Cenovus in 2017 and we've always stated that we did not intend to be a long-term strategic owner of Cenovus shares.

Over the years we've looked at several strategies for reducing our position, we believe the market has responded to the positive steps Cenovus has taken, including its recent commitments to balance sheet strength and operational efficiencies.

We intend to begin selling our Cenovus shares in the open market in the second quarter, while simultaneously proceeds and ConocoPhillips shares. We'll be thoughtful and measured with our sales program, as you would expect with an intention to fully dispose of our Cenovus position by the end of 2022.

We believe this plan to swap Cenovus shares for ConocoPhillips shares aligns well with both our commitment to return capital to shareholders and to monetize Cenovus position. Taken together, our planned debt reduction and our planned Cenovus shares for ConocoPhillips shares, further strengthen both our balance sheet and our ongoing ability to consistently deliver differential returns of capital to our shareholders, all while lowering our sustaining price.

Now I'll turn the call over to Tim for an update on the Lower 48 business.

Tim Leach{BIO 15899422 <GO>}
Thanks, Bill. We're just a few months into the ConocoPhillips Concho integration process and like Ryan and our other leaders, I'm more excited now than ever to tell you about our vision for the company and a great progress we've already made.

I'll do a quick recap of the Lower 48 from the first quarter, which was nothing short of historic not only because of the fast pace integration activity, but because of winter storm Uri. Overall, the storm impacted Lower 48 production by about 50,000 barrels a day for the quarter. However facility damage from the storm was negligible. We quickly resumed production in March. It was a heck of a test for our expanded Lower 48 region, they passed with flying colors.

Total Lower 48 production for the quarter was 715,000 BOEs per day, which includes 405,000 in the Permian, 187,000 in the Eagle Ford and 86,000 in the Bakken. We exited the first quarter with 15 drilling rigs, 11 in the Permian and 4 in the Eagle Ford, and we had 7 frac spreads, 5 in the Permian and two in the Eagle Ford.

It doesn't get a lot of attention. But I also wanted to mention that during the quarter, we executed several innovative pilots across the Lower 48, including more than 40 twin frac wells, electrification of our frac spreads, and additional V5 completions. The point is while we're executing the base business, we're also combining the experience of both companies by conducting numerous tests that should yield future efficiency gains.

My entire Lower 48 organizations excited about the role we can play in making ConocoPhillips a company that can supply the cheapest, cleanest barrels to the market successfully navigate the price cycles, achieve the highest level of execution efficiency and continue to lead the industry on the innovation front. From the size and scale perspective, our Lower 48 is clearly differentiated in the industry.

With the acquisition of Concho, the Lower 48 grew to be about half of ConocoPhillips production and among the largest domestic producers. We have a high quality set of assets with a low cost of supply resource base made up of core positions in the three premier tight oil basins in the world.

Our Lower 48 team is focused on capturing the strategic advantages of both Concho and ConocoPhillips to make our operations more efficient, and drive down sustaining capital with the primary goal of maximizing our cash generating capacity. We're creating a massive free cash flow machine from our combined business that will contribute towards the company's ability to deliver on its priorities through cycles.

All of us recognize that the largest opportunity for value creation is going to come from bringing the best out of both companies and elevating the combined ConocoPhillips to a level unachievable by either company on their own.

I'm happy to say that the new organization has embraced this challenge, and we're seeing even more opportunity than we initially expected. I couldn't be more pleased with the quality of people we have working on this. Starting with the Lower 48 leadership team, which consist of both heritage ConocoPhillips and Concho leaders.

We made it a priority to work closely together and leverage the knowledge base of both very experienced operations. In fact, we continue to see substantial improvements in our well cost. We have our eyes on additional ways to get more for less. Beyond working together to generate the best plan of development and drive efficiencies in our operations, our team is working hard to identify commercial opportunities to improve margins as well as supply chain opportunities to leverage our global scale and drive down costs.

I want to leave you with a strong sense of optimism about what the Lower 48 can deliver. We are fully dedicated to extracting the full value of this deal and I'm looking forward to providing more detail at our mid year market update. And now I'll turn the call over to Nick to provide the status of our operations in the rest of the world.

Nick Olds{BIO 19516064 <GO>}
Thanks, Tim. Well, there's clearly a lot going on in our Lower 48 business, we believe ConocoPhillips has a significant advantage over our independent peers, because we also have diverse global businesses that generate significant free cash flow. Today, our Alaska and international businesses comprise about 50% of our company's operated 1.5 million barrels per day production.

I'll take this opportunity to recap some of the achievements from the first quarter and bringing up to speed on activities we have underway around the globe. So starting in Alaska. I'm pleased to report that greater moves to project has made significant progress over the past several months and facility and construction costs are about 10% below budget as we finish our third and final construction season.

The project is expected to be online by the end of this year at approximately 10,000 barrels a day with peak production of 35,000 barrels a day that will leverage our existing Alpine infrastructure. We're also back to development drilling on the slow after suspending virtually all activity in 2020, we are restarting four rigs across our operated assets in Alaska.

In the Western North Slope, we restarted drilling at CD5 and commissioning activities on the new extended reach drilling rig. The EBRD rig will play a significant role in augmenting Alaska's base business allowing us to drill wells in excess of 35,000 feet accessing low cost of supply resources while minimizing surface disturbance.

So our base Alaska business is performing very well, and we've built a strong momentum coming out of 2020.

And of course, it's been an eventful quarter for Willow. Let me give you a quick update on where that project stands. We continue to progress the front-end engineering and design work, while at the same time taking actions to address the legal challenges that have been recently raised. The 600 million barrel oil discovery remains very competitive in our portfolio. But we won't take final investment decision or make significant long lead investments until the litigation risks have been resolved.

Now moving to Canada. At Montney, we continue to optimize our development plans to incorporate the liquids rich acreage we acquired from mid last year, we're leveraging our Lower 48 unconventional resource expertise and have reduced drilling cost by 25% over the first four paths.

This part of our business doesn't get a lot of external attention yet but it's worth noting that's currently producing approximately 30,000 barrels a day of which 50% is liquids. We continue to be excited about our future in this premier 300,000 acre unconventional position.

At Surmont, we continue to take actions to reduce costs, improve net-backs and reduce emissions and we're seeing encouraging improvements on all three of these fronts. So in summary, Canada remains an important part of our business with quite a lot of upside and learning curve opportunities.

Now moving to our Europe, Middle East and North Africa segment. In Norway, we've made good progress on several projects which benefit from the fiscal incentives implemented by the Norwegian government last year. We're nearing completion of Tortue and are on track to make final investment decisions on both (inaudible) later this year. And continues to assess our recent discoveries at (inaudible). In Qatar, QG 3 asset continues to deliver very strong performance and generate free cash flow and we continue to advance our evaluation of the (inaudible) expansion opportunity. We are still very interested in participating in this project if it fits our financial framework. So we'll keep you posted as this plays out.

Moving on into our Asia-Pacific region, APLNG is running extremely well. Production continues to be strong, which when combined with ongoing focus on reducing capital operating and financing costs has brought the cash breakeven down to $25 per barrel. APLNG distributed almost $100 million to the company in the first quarter of 2021 and is expected to distribute about $200 million in the second quarter.

Finally in Malaysia, we have several low cost of supply, high margin built-on projects at various stages of development. The Malikai Phase 2 project achieve first oil in this year and SMP Phase 2 and Gumusut Phase 3 are on track for first oil in late 2021 and 2022 respectively.

So that's a brief update of our global operations. In summary, we have a lot of exciting work underway that will continue to enhance free cash flow generation.

Now, I'll turn it back to Ryan for some short closing comments.

Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
All right thanks Nick. To wrap up, let me go back to how I started today's call. Reviewing 2021, (Technical Difficulty) opportunity to further every part of the business and continue (Technical Difficulty) of the company to improve (Technical Difficulty) and we're looking forward to sharing more on that and what that means for our shareholders when we get together with you again on June 30. So now with that, let's open it up to Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) We have a question from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.

Q - Neil Mehta{BIO 16213187 <GO>}
Good morning team and I think Matt's last day if I'm not mistaken was May 1, if he is listening from the mountain somewhere wish him well in his retirement and congratulations to everyone on their promotions.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Thanks, Bill. Rest assured, he is probably listening and greeting us.

Q - Neil Mehta{BIO 16213187 <GO>}
Well good. The first question is around Cenovus. You could have approached this Ryan in a couple of different ways. Certainly a block sale and you elected to do this through the end of 2022. So you talk about why you thought this would be optimal way to release the shares into the market.

And just housekeeping question here. So you get this annualized $1.5 billion buyback program. But as you're selling Cenovus shares, this will be incremental to the baseline $1.5 billion right. So this would be a supplemental to the $1.5 billion that you've already announced. So two questions there.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah. Thanks, Neil. Yeah, let me handle the last one first, maybe turn it over to Bill for a little bit of color on why -- you're exactly correct. So we have the dividend, they we're paying. We announced earlier that we were buying $1.5 billion of our shares back in this Sunnova swap for ConocoPhillips share is incremental or on top of the billion and a half that we're currently doing in terms of buying our shares back in.

We've looked at this in lots of different ways over the course of the last number of years as we've been an owner of Sunnova shares. And let me ask Bill to kind of give you a little bit of color on why now and why under this sort of plan.

A - Bill Bullock{BIO 20958520 <GO>}
Sure. Good morning, Neil. So as I mentioned, we've always said that we did intend to be a long-term holder of the Sunnova shares and as Ryan mentioned, we've looked at several methods, we did look at block sales and we considered that. We think the exchange of Sunnova shares for CLP shares over time and open market makes the most sense to us to avoid the discounts associated with block type transactions.

And we think that the market has responded positively to recent Cenovus announcements, so that the exchange ratio for Cenovus and COP has really come back to more historic level. So we see this as an opportunity to one trade in the COP shares, which we like the upside, two monetize an asset on the balance sheet, which we don't think it's a lot of value and three give that value back to shareholders

Q - Neil Mehta{BIO 16213187 <GO>}
That's very clear. And thanks for the color Bill. And the second is if you guys can provide some big picture thoughts on the macro recovery, it certainly seems like the supply side is responding well and prices are firmer, but demand is still uncertain.

So, Ryan. How are you thinking about the Brent price outlook from here and the sustainability of the recovery. Any thoughts on the natural gas side, global natural gas side as well as that's firmed up nicely as well.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah. Thanks Neil. We continue to kind of execute the plan that we laid out at the beginning of the year and it's largely due to our view of the macro as you kind of describe demand is still is off to pre-pandemic levels, picking 96 to 97 million barrels a day of demand, spare capacity still exists on the supply side, largely with the NOPEC group or OPEC plus. So, we still view kind of 5 to 6 million barrels a day of spare supply out in the world. So we still have a balancing that we need to do before we kind of see where the price falls out at that point in time and what the call is on, say US tight oil going forward.

So, we think it's prudent to kind of stay the course right now and not change. We also don't want to our program. So we want to be steadily executing our programs and driving the efficiencies that Tim and Nick talked about across the global portfolio with a lot of emphasis on what we're doing here in the US in the Lower 48.

So until the market against rebalanced, we're doing all that watching it before we make any differences as well, so we're positioning ConocoPhillips for any kind of market that we think enters the fray. So if it is going to be volatile or if it's going to be sort of a sustained more stable kind of price. We're positioned to react to, either one of those kinds of markets, it is a bit uncertain with the pandemic and the demand how quickly that's going to recover.

Now if the assets we believe it's going to recover. We think we probably hit 1 million or so barrels a day of demand later this year and on an annual average, we expect 2022 to be at that kind of a demand level. So at that point in time, we would hope the market is balanced a supply-demand perspective, but it's going to take really the remainder of this year to see that.

But our value proposition is pretty firm and delivering money back to the shareholder like we described. And hopefully you see from today's announcements that we're enhancing that and again the 30% (inaudible) and you look over the last 5 years we've delivered 40% of our cash back to our shareholders. So discipline matters and returns matter and that's what we're all about.

Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Jeanine Wai from Barclays.

Q - Jeanine Wai{BIO 16974257 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking our questions.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Good morning.

Q - Jeanine Wai{BIO 16974257 <GO>}
First question is really on CapEx and Q1 CapEx was 1.2 billion versus the full year guide of about 5.5, so that implies a little over 1.4 billion a quarter on average for the rest of the year. And so we know that it part of be ratable CapEx outside we can appreciate that plus there is noise in the Q1 number based on Concho and weather and a bunch of other stuff.

But how do you see activity progressing or ramping throughout the rest of the year if at all. And we understand the production is an outcome for Conoco, but we're just trying to get a better sense of the new steady state now that Concho (inaudible).

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah Jeanine. Yeah, the first quarter was a little bit artificially low given exactly what you described as the weather impacts in the Lower 48 that kind of shut things down for a period of time and then people forget too that we had kind of, we had to react to a winter drilling season in Alaska that produced the gap a little bit.

So it's not a ratable, you can't just take the first quarter times 4, but we are driving the teams to greater efficiency and trying to get as much done with the purchase precious capital dollar that we can, we will provide a more of an update in the June update that we've talked about, and I'd say thirdly is we designed this to run stable. We designed our programs beginning of the year and asked our teams to go execute that scope and really not interested in trying to drive on a quarterly basis and whipsaw the teams around doing those programs.

We just want them to efficiently and effectively execute the programs that we set out at the beginning of the year, but we'll provide more of an update as we see the year progressing in June.

Q - Jeanine Wai{BIO 16974257 <GO>}
Okay, great. Thank you. We'll wait for that update. And our second question is just on the debt reduction target and we've got balance sheet enhancement, dividend, buyback, CapEx, all moving pieces on capital allocation. So maybe can you talk a little bit more about how you pick $5 billion target over five years.

And you noticed that -- just the amount that's coming through in that time. So maybe something on cadence as well. And I guess we're just really trying to back into how much cash return is available now that we have not assigned close debt target (inaudible). Thank you.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah, thanks. I can let Bill talk specifically about the debt. I would just say go back to my opening remarks, a bit Jeanine is that we're looking at every piece of the business, who are looking at the portfolio, we're looking at the balance sheet, we're looking at the cash sitting on the balance sheet and all those pieces of it and we haven't forgotten about the shareholder, you saw that today with our announcement on the trade with the Cenovus shares and the ConocoPhillips and again that's incremental to the 1.5 billion that we're doing already.

Let me ask Bill, he can give you a little bit more color on why 5 billion why 5 years.

A - Bill Bullock{BIO 20958520 <GO>}
Yeah, sure. Thanks, Ryan. Good morning Jeanine. So first, I just would start with you know both heritage Conoco and heritage Concho had really strong balance sheet. So does this combined company and in fact, as we look at this, our net debt to CFO consensus is under one times materially less than our peer group.

But with the Concho transaction, our gross debts increased from $15 billion to $20 billion and we have some legacy high keep on debt that's out there on our balance sheet. So we think this as unique opportunity to reduce our ongoing interest and lower our ongoing free cash flow breakeven, we think that improves returns. I think it creates greater flexibility in our debt structure and all this supports our ability to maintain greater than 30% of returns for our shareholders.

When you think about why $5 billion. That's certainly over the natural maturities of our bond ladders would be right now. We've got about $3 billion of bonds retiring at the next 5 years. So some of that will be early retirements. And you can see us do that with public tenders, open market repurchases, or perhaps a combination with refinancing.

All that's going to be taking a favors flexibility and optionality and in the case of our $5 billion over 5 years that is our base case. We think that gives us the ability to moderate the reduction and take advantage of supportive market conditions, which you may see us accelerate that a bit if efficiencies in the market allows us to do that earlier.

So that's a bit of context on why we're looking at reducing our debt structure, how we got to $5 billion and a bit on the (inaudible).

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.

Q - Philip Gresh{BIO 3443899 <GO>}
Yes. Good afternoon. As a bit of a follow-up to Jenny's question. There is a lot of excess cash that would be available if you're paying down the $5 billion of gross debt between free cash flow and the cash in the balance sheet and Cenovus shares, perhaps some of this you want to save for the Analyst Day, but any additional high level commentary you could share around capital allocation.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Well yeah, we'll see what the market gives us Phil over time, I would say too that we described to you back in November 2019. We think about the cash on the balance sheet, there is the operating cash, there is some reserve cash to deal with the volatility of the market and then we like to hold some strategic cash as well.

And we still think the market is going to be quite volatile, so we'll see what the market gives us, but we want to be prepared for any kind of market that we find ourselves in.

And then thirdly, you should think about some of that cash will make sure the shareholder is fully satisfied based on past experience and what we've done as a company. And then thirdly, I would say we are thinking about some of the future calls whether that's -- it was successful the North Field expansion, what we might do at Willow. We had some exploration discoveries in Norway. We hope to be successful in Malaysia. So some of that cash as you might see on the balance sheet will go to some of those projects as well such that we can continue to reap all the benefits from the annual free cash flow that we're getting and distribute that back out to the company and to our shareholders.

Q - Philip Gresh{BIO 3443899 <GO>}
Got it, okay. My follow up would just be, Ryan, you made a comment about certain minimum cash levels, how do you think about what that should be today. And then if I could glue in one question around Alaska, do you still target trying to sell down Alaska as a portion of Alaska as you discussed at the 2019 Analyst Day. Would that be another source of potential cash still.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Well, I think more broadly, direct answer to your question Phil is yes, we're still looking at potentially marketing some of the Alaska position, but more broadly, I think with the Concho acquisition we're coming through the portfolio to make sure that we're continually high grading and take the opportunity of the kind of commodity price environment we find ourselves in.

So we'll have more to say on that in June as well. From the gas positions, I think kind of came in the first. We think about $1 billion of operating cash and a couple of billion dollars of $2 billion to $3 billion of reserve cash, which is, what happens in the market, we can respond, we can keep our programs running consistently and not (inaudible) our programs. So we want to have the cash there to do that and then we have strategic cash on top of that, which are for other uses that I described in your first question.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.

Q - Roger Read{BIO 6161944 <GO>}
Hello, good morning.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Good morning Roger.

Q - Roger Read{BIO 6161944 <GO>}
I guess, getting beaten pretty hard here. But I'm going to try one other thing on that, on the debt structure here. I mean looking back to where you were in 16 the changes you made three of the Concho acquisition, it would appear you're aiming for a lower level of debt, you mentioned lowering breakeven as a component of that.

It would seem you could get there by refinancing the debt and bringing the overall interest expense down, so I'm just curious as you think about it as a part of your capital allocation right return to shareholders, granted reducing debt can be seen that way, but I'm just curious how it all kind of fit together as the goal of reducing by $5 billion.

A - Bill Bullock{BIO 20958520 <GO>}
Sure. Roger, this is Bill. I'll take that. Yes, certainly. So as part of our $5 billion debt reduction over five years. I mentioned, we've got about $3 billion that's just naturally maturing towers. We are absolutely looking at refinancing a portion of our debt, our purchasing debt in. We like our path to $5 billion.

But with a high coupon out there, it's possible to refinance and I think that will depend on a couple of factors, including the cost of debt retired and reissued and how we decided to approach our debt reduction targets, but certainly refinancing is a component of the overall debt restructuring and portfolio and it works in combination with considering public tenders or open market and repurchases. But you're absolutely right. We could make some steady progress on that just by refinancing some of our high coupon debt.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ryan Todd from Simmons Energy.

Q - Ryan Todd{BIO 15158570 <GO>}
Great, thanks. Maybe at a higher level. What are you seeing on capital efficiency and portfolios. We're going to emerge from the pandemic a little bit and with the addition of the portfolio. Do you have an estimate for what you think that maintenance CapEx is and the right way to think about long-term capital spend used to talk about kind of $6 billion to $7 billion a year the rough range of that. Has there been any adjustment to kind of what you see is a kind of a normalized level of longer-term capital spend.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah, we'll be talking about that Ryan in June and kind of provide an update relative to what you saw back in 2019. It would be premature for me to talk about that. I would just tell you we're trying to drive down our sustaining capital and lower the breakevens in the company. And I think Tim and what we're doing in the Lower 48 mix doing around the rest of the globe. We're seeing a lot of progress and that goes with the synergy capture that we can talk about if you like, but all those things are manifesting themselves and lower CapEx, lower sustaining and lower breakeven.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Josh Silverstein from Wolfe Research.

Q - Josh Silverstein{BIO 17750530 <GO>}
Thanks guys, just on Alaska, I know last year was a COVID shortened drilling program. Can you talk about all the exploration activity that is taking place this year. And then just, again with the timing around Willow with litigation of what needs to happen there to progress that.

A - Nick Olds{BIO 19516064 <GO>}
Yeah Josh this is Nick. I apologize Josh. Let me start with Willow. First the big focus this year is related to the front-end and engineering design as I mentioned as well as detailed engineering that's all in related to reducing, understanding our capital, the schedule and ultimate development considerations prior to taking FID later this year, that's the target.

As a reminder for the group, we got two lawsuits that are currently in Federal Court filed by two environmental groups challenging the BLM and the Army Corps record of decision for the Willow project. As you recall as well, we also had all the permits for the 2021 Willow construction received in early January.

However, due to the granting of the injunction by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals that 2021 activity, which was a very small modest scope of gravel work has been deferred into 2022, and as all projects we have scheduled floater scheduled contingency, Josh. So that won't impact your overall timeline.

In addition to the feed that I just mentioned. The primary focus now relates to the merits of those active lawsuits and we anticipate a decision by the district court in third quarter. I also want to just mentioned, we have significant stakeholder support. As an example, we got state of Alaska in the North Slope Borough have both intervene in the court case supporting the BLM record decision. We also have several (inaudible) village councils and travel organizations who have sent strong letters of support to Congress and the Secretary of Interior.

Last thing I think I'll just reiterate, as part of my opening remarks, we will not take FID or make any significant long investments until such time as key litigation risks have been addressed. And finally, Willow is a great investment opportunity. We have the flexibility to adjust the pace of the project if needed.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Steven Richardson from Evercore ISI.

Q - Steven Richardson{BIO 15036459 <GO>}
Hi, thank you. Ryan, I was wondering if you could expand a little bit on this idea of 2021 is a catalyst moment as you contemplate June 30 and that update. I'm not asking you to kind of preview it, but I think it would seem to us that one of the big differences today ConocoPhillips relative to the last time you did one of these updates was just to predictability of your portfolio is probably better than it's ever been.

So I was wondering if maybe you could reflect a little bit on that. Predictability acknowledging oil price is still big, the big externality, but the predictability of the business you see internally and how that's informing kind of your longer-term targeting and kind of willingness to think out more than a couple of quarters or even a couple of years.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah. Steven, you're right. As we said in the opening remarks. Lower 48 is half the company in terms of production today and the shorter cycle nature of that business is pretty predictable, but I wouldn't say we've gotten to a place where we understand and running the base business across the whole world is good too and so we understand the portfolio really well obviously, and know what the prospects look like over the long haul.

You talked about the catalyst moment, it's really focused and what we want to convey today is every aspect of the business. So we talked about the balance sheet. We talked about returns back to the shareholder. We talked about the efficiencies that we're gaining in the system post the Concho acquisition. So we're working really on every part trying to lower the breakeven of the company and still be the best company in this business that can operate in a very volatile environment. And you can still count on the returns back to the shareholder. And you can count on us hyper-focused and disciplined on returns, not only on capital but of capital both. So I think that's what you'll hear in June, a lot more on that, work on the portfolio, work on what we're doing across the whole company on every lever.

We know what investors want, it's free cash flow and returns and that's we're hyper-focused on.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Hello. Doug

Q - Doug Leggate{BIO 1842815 <GO>}
Can you hear me now Ryan.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah we got you Doug.

Q - Doug Leggate{BIO 1842815 <GO>}
Yeah. So it seems I've got a dodgy headset. I apologize for that. So Ryan, I'd like to, I'm afraid it's going to be up a little bit on the free cash here also, I'd like to kind of frame a little bit because (inaudible) defend themselves, but if you think about value is essentially you're unlevered free cash flow.

The decision is ultimately between the balance sheet and equity to transfer value between those two. And then a buyback implicitly highs some view on the value of your company. So I'm kind of curious how low you would be prepared to take the debt, the full step up the buybacks again because clearly you could do a lot more if you wanted to of $1.5 billion. And where variable dividend potential fits in for that story.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah, sorry you breaking up there a little bit. Doug. If I understand your question right, how do we make all those balances. I think we're walking in June at the same time here a little bit. So we're working on all aspects of the portfolio.

I think our focus is on trying to lower the breakeven and lower the sustaining capital so work on the operating side of the business. Lower the breakeven, which is reducing our interest expense by taking some of those high coupon debt and bring it forward giving us options to take that callable and reduce that in addition to what's coming out over time.

So I think we're trying to do all things and I think the basic commitment that we've made to the shareholders is we're going to return 30% of our cash or greater back to you over time, so we will do that.

Now the vehicle - and I think part of your question was what's the right vehicle to do that in. That's I guess -- a little bit. There's not unanimity around what the right way to do that is, we like to shares, given the reduction that based on the absolute dividend, the per share metrics that it creates in the balance and the accepted way it's done.

But with that said, we've studied variable dividends and CBDs or whatever you want to call them going forward. We spent a lot of time thinking about it mathematically. It really doesn't matter. At the end of the day the commitment is to return more than 30%. If there is a hybrid in our future that could be, we will keep looking at it and we're not committed to one path to deliver returns back to the shareholders.

But today we think our shares are a great value. So, we think this conversion from CVE to ConocoPhillips shares is an elegant solution to give more back to the shareholder. So we're pretty committed to that.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Bob Brackett from Bernstein Research.

Q - Bob Brackett{BIO 15346675 <GO>}
Thanks for that. Most of my intelligent questions have been asked, but I'd like to at least chime in and congratulate Matt as well on his retirement and maybe ask a question around the June 30 Virtual Meeting, should we expect something like the 2019 meeting 100 plus slides a 10-year plan or should we expect more of a modest update?

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Modest update, Bob.

Q - Doug Leggate{BIO 1842815 <GO>}
I felt there was a lot of questions and putting a bit of burden on you all but glad for that clarification.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah. Appreciate the question Bob. We get the clarity out there.

Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Paul Cheng from Scotiabank.

Q - Paul Cheng{BIO 1494607 <GO>}
Hey guys, good morning.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Good morning Paul.

Q - Paul Cheng{BIO 1494607 <GO>}
Team just curious that when you think that you will have a stage you believe you're fully integrate of the Concho asset and that ready to take on other M&A opportunity otherwise that you would be in a position to say, okay the organization (inaudible) ready to take on new asset and also that on that basis that. When you're talking to your peers with the commodity price is much stronger and the share performed much better today compared to a year ago. How that conversation on the consolidation trend in the industry has changed, do you think that the consolidation trend like essentially over by now or that still have opportunity.

The second question is that when I looked at the full year production guidance of 1.5 million BOE per day your first half roughly 1.5 based on the midpoint of the second quarter, but I would think that second quarter probably have some maintenance downtime perhaps that they will be higher than the second half.

So is there any wins on why the full year or what the second half production will not be higher than the 1.5 million (inaudible) estimate that you gave.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Thank you. Yeah. Thanks, Paul. I think I understand your question, first one was around consolidation and M&A. You referred to the integration activity is going on with Concho and where we're pretty hyper-focused on that right now and trying to deliver all those efficiencies in the synergy and the story is pretty good there.

We updated the synergies to 750 million kind of earlier this year and we still see more opportunity and most of that's focused in the best practices and capital avoidance in commercial and in supply chain. So, we're really focused on that and we'll get an update in June. So we are pretty focused on making sure we get the Concho assets integrated and Tim is doing a great job with his team in the Lower 48 on the efficiency side, I think it manifests itself on the performance of the company in the first quarter and in the production performance despite having the impacts from winter storm Uri.

So maybe I'll have Nick can comment a little bit, we do for the rest of the year and profile we do have some turnarounds coming cycle, Nick will add to that. I think, which is the second part of your question around what does that profile look like in the last half or last 3 quarters of the year.

A - Nick Olds{BIO 19516064 <GO>}
Okay. Yeah. Thanks, Ryan. Paul, just quickly the turnaround impacts are very consistent with the prior years our heavy turnaround season is in 2Q, but even more so in 3Q. So if you look at 2Q, you got about 15,000 barrels a day in 2Q that's mainly Norway maintenance work.

And then if you look at 3Q is about 25,000 barrels a day. So you see higher downtime and that's mainly in our Western North Slope Alpine assets as well as Greater Prudhoe Bay, again this maintenance, so 15,000 and 25,000 2Q, 3Q respectively. And that has been included in our guidance.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
If I didn't fully answer your question, Paul. Sorry, but I don't think M&A is done in our business, I still think there is consolidation that will occur and needs to occur, there's too many players and it's very difficult these kinds of price is clearly, but don't be surprised if you see more of it in our industry because I think it still needs to take place.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Freeman from Raymond James.

Q - John Freeman{BIO 7113688 <GO>}
Good afternoon, just a follow-up on Stephen's question earlier, we're following the Concho merger Lower 48 makes up half the company's production and again realizing that your primary focus is just on low-cost supply, but just sort of how you think of kind of the long-term balance kind of driving for with the short cycle versus long cycle production, obviously you're benefiting tremendously with the uptick in a short cycle production just with the oil prices, it had a big move up, just maybe longer term, how you think about the balance and it does the answer changed at all based on the commodity environment.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
No, not really. I think we're hyper-focused on cost of supply. We're pretty agnostic to gas oil short long, which is why we're interested in the North Field Expansion in Qatar and continue to have interest in that and continuing to add to and improve our Lower 48 operations.

So I'd say we don't really have a ideal blend in mind and we're trying to drive to over time, we're pretty agnostic and just focused on the best rocks, they deliver the best returns. That's the competitive advantage in this business.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Leo Mariani from KeyBanc.

Q - Leo Mariani{BIO 20899117 <GO>}
Hey guys, a couple of quick questions here for you. Certainly just noticed that your first quarter of 21 Permian production, it was very strong. I did the math right, it looks like it was up about 317,000 barrels a day versus the fourth quarter of 2020, which looked to be well in excess of the contribution from Concho, which I think closed kind of mid-January here, just trying to get a sense of what kind of drove that strong performance was maybe like a larger group of wells that maybe came on in such a fashion that you saw a bunch of upside on the production, is it stronger well performance kind of what drove that here in the first quarter.

A - Tim Leach{BIO 15899422 <GO>}
Yeah. Leo, this is Tim. We were projecting entering the first quarter, a pretty hot rate coming out of last year and then with the storm slowed the capital down, but didn't really slow to production that was coming in from of our carry on activity. And so I think as Ryan said you'll see kind of more steady approach throughout the rest of the year, but it was an excellent quarter everybody is in all the regions are hitting on all cylinders. I'm really pleased with the performance.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Raphael Dubois from Societe Generale.

Q - Raphael Dubois{BIO 22203815 <GO>}
Thank you very much for taking my questions. The first one is on the North Field expansion with so many players earmarked with interest. Can you tell us a bit more about how you can get involved in this project, it kind of just be about the price side, you're willing to accept.

I guess, what are you going to bring to Qatar that will make them accept to work with you that will be my first question, please.

A - Ryan Lance{BIO 16230855 <GO>}
Yeah. Raphael. I think it goes back to our long-standing commitment to Qatar and we're in Train 6 Qatargas 3 project, for a long time and I think we've demonstrated the value. We have a water center in Qatar. So we've had strong relationships with the Qataris and to your point, it's not only about sort of the bid level, it's about the long-term relationship and the past relationship, historic relationship that you've had.

So they've been a great partner, a great owner deal with. So I think just like anybody in our competitors, we rely on the history that we've got in the country and the opportunity that sits there. Then we'll have to be competitive in our bid. And then, but it has to work for us. So it has to be competitive in our financial framework. So that's how it plays.

Q - Raphael Dubois{BIO 22203815 <GO>}
Great. And I have to ask you an ESG question, I understand you have this net zero emission target by 2050. You give an intermediate target for 2030. Can you without preempting too much with what you will tell us in June. How to bridge the gap between 2030 and 2050.

Do you already have an idea of what will be another layer of absolute reductions and what will be the use of offsets that you will be contemplating.

A - Dominic Macklon{BIO 19356240 <GO>}
Yeah Raphael. It's Dominic here. So I mean I think, there's really two main thrusts there. The first is that we have a tremendous amount of work the around the business units around reducing emissions. This year we have about 50 projects, reducing our scope one and two emissions by $80 million, some great examples across Lower 48 and around the world.

But in addition to that sort of incremental gains each year. We have launched our low carbon technologies team and that's very much in support of our Paris aligned climate risk strategy. Their primary focus is on those opportunities most relevant to our core business to support this. And also to our core competencies, so areas of focus include renewable power sources to further reduce the emissions intensity of our operations as our scope one and two.

Carbon capture use and storage and also carbon offsets or areas of initial focus. So I think these are the areas that we're looking at right now and we expect to develop those very much in the coming years.

A - Ellen DeSanctis{BIO 2230093 <GO>}
This is Ellen will take one final question, if you don't mind.

Operator
Thank you. The question comes from Neal Dingmann from Truist Securities.

Q - Neal Dingmann{BIO 6416564 <GO>}
Thanks for squeezing me in. Maybe a question for you Tim just given, you've talked about all the debt repayment, you're doing and I was looking obviously you've still got a massive Lower 48 portfolio. My question is and thirdly, even to that we've seen some very outstanding sales most recent was a smaller Bakken one just in the last there.

So, my thought is pertaining to your Bakken I noticed Tim mentioned. I don't think any rigs running in that area. Would you think about bringing forward either value from that or any other assets forward, given the large size of your entire international portfolio.

A - Tim Leach{BIO 15899422 <GO>}
Well, I mean we are we're looking over everything Neal, so it globally and here in the US I think post transaction with Concho, we want to make sure that every assets competitive in the portfolio and we're not lost on the fact that it's a reasonable market right now for sales, so you'll hear more about that in June.

A - Ellen DeSanctis{BIO 2230093 <GO>}
So I think we'll go ahead and wrap up. If you don't mind give our listeners any closing instructions. I appreciate everybody's time and attention. I will see you in June.

Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. We thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

