Q3 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Craig Larson, Partner and Head of Investor Relations
Robert H. Lewin, Chief Financial Officer
Scott C. Nuttall, Co-Chief Executive Officer
Other Participants
Alex Blostein, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Arnaud Giblat, Analyst, BNP
Bill Katz, Analyst, Credit Suisse
Brian Bedell, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Chris Kotowski, Analyst, Oppenheimer company
Craig Siegenthaler, Analyst, Bank of America
Gerry O'Hara, Analyst, Jefferies
Michael Cyprys, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Patrick Davitt, Analyst, Autonomous Research
Rufus Hone, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to KKR's Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following management's prepared remarks, the conference will be open for questions. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I will now hand the call over to Craig Larson, Head of Investor Relations for KKR. Craig, please go ahead, sir.

Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. This morning, as usual, I'm joined by Rob Lewin, our Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Nuttall, our Co-Chief Executive Officer. We'd like to remind everyone that we'll refer to non-GAAP measures on the call, which are reconciled to GAAP figures in our press release which is available on the Investor Center section at kkr.com. And as a reminder, we report our segment numbers on an adjusted share basis.

This call will contain forward-looking statements which do not guarantee future events or performance. Please refer to our earnings release and our SEC filings for cautionary factors about these statements. I'm going to begin the call by spending a few minutes walking through the quarter. So we look at our results and think they really highlight the resiliency of our business model. Our management fees for the quarter were $671 million, that's up 20% compared to Q3 of last year.

Management fee growth for the quarter, as well as over the last 12 months has been most meaningful within our Real Assets business, which as you'll recall, we began reporting separately last quarter. Net transaction and monitoring fees were $168 million for the quarter, with capital markets contributing $116 million. To go through our expenses, our fee-related compensation margin consistent with prior quarters was 22.5%.

And other operating expenses increased modestly from last quarter, coming in at $146 million. In total, our fee-related earnings stood at $542 million or $0.61 per share, with an FRE margin of 61%. This is nearly eighth consecutive quarter that our FRE margin has exceeded 60%. Next, realized performance income was $498 million with realized carried interest driven by monetization of C.H.I. Overhead Doors, Pfizer, as well as Max Healthcare.

Realized investment income was $285 million, driven by similar monetization events. Adding these two lines together, so looking at realized performance income together with realized investment income, really to get a complete picture of our monetization activities. Total realized gains for the first nine months of the year are 10% ahead of last year. Given all of the volatility experienced across markets in 2022, we think that speaks to the breadth of our platform and again the resiliency of our business model.

So overall, our asset management operating earnings were $959 million. And our insurance segment had another very strong quarter generating $127 million of operating earnings. Together, this resulted in an after-tax distributable earnings of $824 million or $0.93 per share. Turning to investment performance, you can see the details of the quarter and the LTM period on page 7 of the press release. Just looking at this page, the Traditional Private Equity portfolio was down 4% in the quarter compared to broad indices that were down 5% to 6%.

And over the last 12 months, the PE portfolio was minus 8% compared to the S&P 500 and MSCI World Indices, that were down 15% and 19% respectively. In Real Assets, our portfolios continue to perform again in the quarter with a lot of volatility. The opportunistic real estate portfolio was minus 1% in the quarter and plus 11% over the last 12 months while the intra-portfolio was up 1% in the quarter and is plus 5% LTM.

On the Leveraged Credit side, the portfolio was up 1% in the quarter and down 5% over the last 12 months. And our Alternative Credit portfolio was down 1% for the quarter and up 3% in the LTM. There has been meaningful volatility in the credit markets over these periods as well. The high-yield index declined 1% in the quarter and is off 15% over the last 12 months, just as a point of comparison. In terms of our balance sheet investments, investment performance was flat in the quarter and down 5% over the last 12 months.

Core Private Equity, which Rob will touch on in a moment and is still our largest allocation was up 2% in the quarter and it's up 8% over the LTM. Turning to fundraising in the quarter. We raised $13 billion bringing new capital raised to $65 billion year-to-date. With that, our assets under management increased to $496 billion and fee-paying AUM now totals $398 billion. To help put these figures into perspective, over the past two years both our AUM and our fee-paying AUM have more than doubled.

We also continue to deploy capital with $16 billion invested in Q3. Credit strategies invested $7 billion in the quarter, with the remainder of the quarter's deployment roughly split between real assets and private equity. And with that, I'm pleased to turn the call over to Rob.

Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Thanks a lot, Craig, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by saying a few words on the operating environment. As you know, the third quarter and really the first nine months of 2022 were very challenging across markets. High levels of inflation are clearly impacting global consumers, while the sharp increase in interest rates has had multiple knock-on effects that will invariably slow much of the global economy.

In turn, equity, and bond indices have been very volatile and virtually all of them are down significantly year-to-date. Our capital markets activity has meaningfully slowed. Global equity and credit issuance is significantly below historical norms. Now, despite all of this volatility and uncertainty, the overall mood and sentiment across KKR is quite positive. And we thought it would be worthwhile this morning to go through five key reasons why we feel the way we do.

First, let me remind you why our business model positions us well for periods like this one. There are few key reasons why. About 90% of our capital is perpetual or committed for an average of eight years or more from inception. Our management fees are largely calculated on committed or invested capital. And as a result, are more insulated from fluctuating NAVs of our funds. Therefore, much of our management fees are highly predictable and that visibility in turn provides us with the continued ability to invest back into the firm for growth.

We also have $43 billion of committed capital yet to turn on that has a weighted average management fee rate of about 100 basis points. And finally, and maybe most critical in moments like these, we have $113 billion of uncalled capital from our investors that we can use to invest into the current dislocation. While those statistics are all meaningful in their own right, I think it's also helpful when viewed in comparison to where we were as a firm even a short while back.

Two and half years ago, on March 31, 2020, so right as we entered COVID, we had $57 billion of dry powder with $19 billion of committed capital yet to earn management fees. That compares to the $113 billion and $43 billion I mentioned a moment ago. So both of these figures have doubled more or less over the last two and half years. And when you consider our relative positioning as a firm, those numbers don't account for the significant increase we have had in perpetual capital, largely due to our partnership with Global Atlantic and our acquisition of KJRM, as well as the meaningful increase in the diversification of our business, both by geography and strategy.

This brings me to my second reason for optimism. We're fortunate due to our fundraising success, and definitely, a bit of luck on timing, that we are in a position to deploy a significant amount of dry powder with asset prices more dislocated and while capital is quite scarce. As a result, we are starting to become a lot more constructive on our opportunity sets. We are already finding opportunities across the credit landscape. Our Real Estate and corporate credit teams are all very active. But more exciting is our outlook for the coming 12 months to 18 months across all asset classes and geographies. We are mobilizing our teams and resources against what we see as a growing opportunity to put our client capital to work.

Take for example, in private equity, oftentimes our best vintages result from investments made during periods of market distress. I think the early 2000s, the GFC are what we went through a couple of years ago. We think 2023 could present such an opportunity. And the key here is that we have really set ourselves up to be able to outperform in this environment given our expertise and breadth across geographies, industries, and asset classes. And most importantly, our culture really incentivizes our people to work across the firm to ensure that both information and capability travel and that we can make each other better.

As a result, we are uniquely positioned to find creative and attractive investment opportunities. Turning now to performance, which is my third point. Please turn to page 8 of the earnings release. As Craig went through, every quarter we report our investment performance for the quarter and trailing 12-month period across our major asset classes. This really though only tells part of the story, as it doesn't capture investment return since inception.

These funds all continued to outperform their comparable public indices. Our clients really in all channels rely on us to produce differentiated outcomes compared to what they can achieve in traditional asset classes and now it's just what we've been doing. Now to be clear, we certainly have to date and we'll in the future, a handful of more difficult situations to manage. But our thematic approach which we have talked about many times and our focus on portfolio construction are two critical reasons why you see this kind of outperformance, which brings me to my fourth point, the strength of our fund performance continues to allow us to raise capital from our investors.

Q3 new capital raised of $13 billion brings year-to-date fundraising to $65 billion. To put that number in perspective, that's already our second-best year of fundraising ever and we still have a quarter to go. Even more notably, this was against a much more challenging fundraising backdrop than the past few years, and without many of our largest flagships in the market.

And looking ahead over the next 12 to 18 months, we continue to have a really active calendar and we remain constructive about the outlook for scaling our strategies that are coming into market. And finally, I want to turn to my fifth point. And focus on the competitive differentiation that our balance sheet creates in periods like these, there's not a corporate that I know that doesn't wish they had more capital availability right now.

And we are very confident in our ability to deploy our excess capital in opportunities that can both generate compelling investment returns and also help build and scale the firm at the same time. Part of what generates this confidence is the strength of our existing investment portfolio. Our focus on asset allocation and really where the puck is going has served us well. While the S&P 500 declined 15% over the last 12 months, our balance sheet was off only 4.7%.

And over the last three and five years, our annual returns have been 16% and 14%. Also several 100 basis points ahead of the S&P over these periods. One of the key drivers of this outperformance is the shift that we made a few years ago to increase our exposure to real assets. The fair value of our Real Assets investments have increased from $2.4 billion, two years ago to $4.2 billion as of 9/30, and today represents almost a quarter of our investment portfolio.

Our largest allocation on the balance sheet remains Core Private Equity. And this really gets into business building and how the balance sheet allows us to play offense [ph]. As a reminder, core PE is a long-duration investment strategy, where we expect to hold these investments for 10 to 15-plus years. I believe they carry a more modest risk-return profile compared to our traditional private-equity model. We're looking for mid-to-high teens gross IRRs that we can compound for north of a decade.

These are businesses we believe have strong secular tailwinds with defensible market positions, solid cash-flow dynamics, and as a result, benefit from a more stable earnings profile. So from a standing start six years ago, we've put together this really incredible global portfolio of 17 companies with $32 billion of AUM that is both third-party capital together with balance sheet capital. We believe we have the largest core PE asset management business in the world.

And as shareholders, we are all participating in Core PE through the compounding of value on our balance sheet, alongside the management fees, capital markets revenue, fee-related earnings, and carried interest that is generated over time. That combination is incredibly powerful. Our acquisition of Global Atlantic in July 2020 right on the heels of COVID is perhaps the best example of how our balance sheet positioned us to play offense when others could not, during that period of severe dislocation.

We have deep conviction that GA can be a long-term compounder of capital, much like Core Private Equity. And we are a partner here with a first-rate management team. So far, GA has been performing exceptionally well. Over the last 12 months, they have generated an ROE of about 21%, well ahead of our expectations. While AUM has increased from approximately $70 billion at announcement to over $130 billion as of 9/30, really helping to also drive our asset management economics.

Core Private Equity and Global Atlantic are great examples, but they are just two of many. We know that our model will continue to allow us to find ways to use the balance sheet, where we can simultaneously generate compelling investment returns and also use it to grow and scale the firm at the same time. We have also created a liability structure on our balance sheet that allows for playing real offense in this environment. We have very intentionally funded ourselves with long-dated liabilities that are fixed-cost of capital.

The average maturity of our recourse debt is around 20 years and it has a weighted-average fixed coupon of approximately 3% after tax. Obviously, that just isn't replicable today and represents a huge asset for us right now. With all of this hopefully, it's clear why we remain so excited about our long-term opportunities.

So in summary, number one, our model is durable and diverse with significant recurring revenues. Two, the next 12 to 18 months should present great deployment opportunities and we are extremely well-positioned to invested into them. Number three, we are generating excellent investment performance on behalf of our clients. And four, our fundraising success has been notable especially given the backdrop and we remain very well-positioned to achieve growth from here.

And finally, number five, our balance sheet is a strategic differentiator whose value is even more meaningful in moments like these. The opportunity set in front of us over the next five to 10 years is a mix. And we have never felt better position competitively. That's why the tone inside the firm is so constructive right now. Our long-term goals that we have articulated for 2026 are unchanged and we have a great deal of confidence in our ability to achieve that.

And with that, Scott, Craig, and I are happy to take any questions that you have.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Alex Blostein{BIO 15412167 <GO>}
Hi, everybody, good morning. Thanks for -- thanks for the question. Apologies for a two parter, but I promise you that kind of related. So just starting with private equity. So financing costs are obviously up pretty meaningfully, growth slower, credit spreads are widening. So I hear the optimism to deploy capital but curious how you thinking about deployment in private equity specifically and how are the return profile of where you could deploy money today varies versus what you could have done a couple of years ago? In other words, are you still underwriting to high-teens to 20% IRRs? And I guess are the lower multiples, the lower entry multiples enough to offset both the growth headwinds as well as higher financing costs? And then I had a quick follow-up just on the growth and private equity management fees for the next 12 to 18 months.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Hey, Alex, thank you for the multiple parts. Why don't I start, look, a couple of observations just on deployment. One, public market, and when we start there, public market valuations have obviously come down very meaningfully. Our macro team does this work every quarter, where they look across the breadth of markets, and asset classes and looking at current valuations versus a 20-year average. And Japanese equities as an example are at 8% of their long-term average. That's just one example that's a pretty remarkable statistic.

And at the same point in time, capital is obviously very precious as you noted. So I think the combination of markets coming down together with capital being very precious is a great thing for us. And we have lots of tools at our disposal in terms of finding ways to be relevant. I expect you'll remember our deployment history during COVID again in a period which even arguably was more dramatically dislocated, and more dramatically shut down. I think we feel great about the connectivity that we had as a firm and the opportunities that we were able to find in terms of deploying capital in private equity and private markets broadly.

And I guess the final thought that I'd make just as it relates to the financing market is, look, we have 70 people globally in our capital markets business. And the strategic value of this business increases during periods of volatility in distress. And so, I think as it relates to our ability to finance transactions given our position, the best-in-class talent we have here on a global basis, our ability to access and finance the capital markets during periods of distress is actually something that we think of is being as a real competitive advantage for us.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Hey, Alex, it's Scott. Just couple of things I'd add on to what Craig said. You're right, financing costs are up. I'd say multiples generally speaking are down more, then financing costs are up. And if you look kind of overtime and you run out the math, paying a little bit more to get the financing in place, it doesn't have that large an impact on returns as long as you've got the right assets, the right thematic and you're able to make the company better while you own it. So the bottomline is we are still pricing the IRRs to where we were before, it's just that a bit of a different mix.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
And then Alex, switching to your question as it relates to management fees across private equity and growth from here obviously, as you know, a couple of our big flagships we got done over the last 12 to 24 months. But we continue to raise a number of adjacent products that we're excited about that are in their scaling phase. And also remember that our Core Private Equity business is a business that generates management fees as capital is deployed as opposed to committed capital at the onset of the fund. And so as we continue to deploy capital in Core Private Equity, you should see some natural growth there as well.

So we're constructive as it relates to growth of our private equity management fees over the coming quarters. And then obviously at some point there in the future, I will have a re-rates of our flagship strategies.

Operator
Our next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Bank of America. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Craig Siegenthaler{BIO 15021209 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Good morning.

Q - Craig Siegenthaler{BIO 15021209 <GO>}
So my question is on Global Atlantic. I wanted to see how early-stage credit quality metrics have trended inside of GA in 3Q and we know it's coming off very strong levels. But have you seen a pickup in delinquencies, nonaccruals, credit-sized assets, OTTIs? And then, if the U.S. does enter an economic recession next year, or at least if the economy does slow a lot, do you expect to see a pickup in OTTIs next year off of a very-very low-base currently?

A - Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Great. Hey, Craig, thanks for the question. So the short answer is that we have not seen any deterioration of credit quality across Global Atlantic. And as you -- as you look forward and as you look at different sensitivities, we feel really good with how that book is positioned. I would note that, are there NAIC-rated assets that 95% plus of them are NAIC 1 or 2 so investment-grade in nature. And so we feel really good about the underlying strength of the bucket Global Atlantic.

Q - Craig Siegenthaler{BIO 15021209 <GO>}
Great. Thank you, Rob.

A - Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Thanks, Craig.

Operator
Our next question comes from Gerry O'Hara with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Gerry O'Hara
Great. Thanks for taking the question this morning. Just circling back, I guess on some comments made in some of the recent quarters just around the expansion of platform distribution for some of the democratized retail products. Hoping we could get an update there and perhaps any commentary around flows in the quarter would also be helpful? Thank you.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Hey, Gerry, it's Craig. I'm glad you asked about what a nice start. First, just to your specific question on flows, we did see new capital raised in the quarter slow versus Q2 with volatility in the quarter. I guess we're not really terribly surprised by that. So new capital raised across all of our democratized products was about $500 million in the quarter and crest would have been about half of that. Now, what that doesn't tell you is all that's going on under the hood because there's quite a lot.

I think first just as it relates to crest and distribution, there are three main wire houses in the U.S. as you know, we've been on one of those since we launched 15 months ago and we're really pleased with our market-share and our positioning there. We were added to a second warehouse in August and then launched on the third right at the very end of September. So with all the volatility in the quarter and the timing of these launches, you're not really seeing the impact of that in last 30 numbers, but the breadth of our distribution there certainly increased in the quarter.

Second, we did make a series of the filings as you may have seen on our infrastructure products. Now, unfortunately, not only have an active registration statement on file there isn't a lot of additional detail we can give you here because of the FCC's private placement rules, but wanted to highlight that is something noteworthy. Third, we have made additional filings on additional private-equity as well as credit products in the quarter. And fourth, we continue to hire and onboard, and build a team that's focused on this opportunity for us.

I think the main takeaways if you were to step-back from the 90-day period if you will is we expect to have democratized products across our four main asset classes, Real Estate, Infrastructure, private-equity, and credit. This continues to be a real priority for us. And the great news for us, one this is a huge end market, it's a massive opportunity and in many ways, it's all upside for us and it continues to feel like we're really wonderfully well-positioned against this just enormous opportunity.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Yeah, the only thing I would add, Gerry, it's Scott is Rob mentioned that we continue to feel great about what we've shared with you in terms of our growth plan through 2026. We had very little on private wealth in those numbers. So to Craig's point, this is all in front of us, an upside for us relative to what's in the firm today and hopefully will provide upside to the trajectory we shared with you at our Analyst Day amongst other quarterly calls.

Operator
Our next question is with Patrick Davitt with Autonomous Research. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Patrick Davitt{BIO 15433277 <GO>}
Hey, good morning, everyone. Could you give us an update on the announced but not closed realizations for 4Q and then maybe taking a step back, any updated broader thoughts on the potential for realized cash sort of come down over the next few quarters into next year given the decrease in net accrued carry and more difficulty getting deals done?

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Yeah, sure. Hey, Patrick. Thanks for the question. Based on transactions that have happened or where we have deals that have either been signed up or we expect that have closed or we expect to close this quarter, we've got approximately $350 million of realized performance revenue and realized investment revenue that we feel-good about. So continued momentum on the monetization front, in spite of the environment. And if we achieve those numbers and this price important ballpark around 30% comes from carried interest and the balance from realized investment income and incentive fees that will come in at that lower comp range. And so a higher flow-through on monetizations of these what we've got quarter-to-date.

In irrespective of realized monetization revenue in the future, of course, some of this is going to be impacted by the environment and I've said this before we don't -- we don't need straight-line up-markets, what we need are periods of time where volatility is down in pockets of time where volatility is down to be able to monetize our portfolio. And while you're right, we've taken some marks as an industry and as a firm, we still have approximately $9 billion of embedded revenue that sits on the balance sheet across our carried interest outline item as well as our balance sheet. And so that's the fair value of those assets relative to their cost that gives us a good bit of visibility in terms of generating meaningful revenue in the future when we do get those pockets or opportunities to be able to monetize our portfolio.

Operator
Our next question is from Bill Katz with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Bill Katz{BIO 1542109 <GO>}
Okay. Thank you very much for taking the question this morning. So maybe circling back to the insurance platform, just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the implications of higher interest rates as it relates to any kind of lapse or surrender dynamics and or block opportunities? Thank you.

A - Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Hey, Bill, it's Rob. I'll take this, I'll start. Overall the punch line is we think GA should be a net beneficiary of a rising rate environment for a couple of reasons and I'll touch on surrenders at the end. One, outflows should be better both on the individual, as well as on the institutional side of that business. I think on the individual side, it's just easier to be able to sell and distribute a 4% annuity than it is a 1.5% annuity. And then on the institutional side, you referenced blocks. We should benefit here, we're seeing this in our pipeline because all things equal our reinsurance clients are going to realize lower losses in a higher rate environment. And so, I think that's why you're seeing our pipeline pickup on the block side.

As it relates to the balance sheet specifically, assets and liabilities are pretty tightly matched at GA as you know, so we don't expect much impact here, but we definitely do have some floating rate exposure and so overall, we should be doing better on the balance sheet in a higher rate environment. And then you mentioned surrenders at the end, it's still early, of course, but so far in 2022, as well as in Q3 of 2022, we've experienced lower surrenders than what we were expecting. We attribute a good part of this to the design of our products which disincentivize policyholders from surrendering before they are expected to do so. And so as you think about our Global Atlantic and our policies, about 75% of those policies either have surrender charges or aren't able to be surrendered.

Again back to product design and why we feel like we got our arms around that kind of a risk in a rising rate environment. But of course, something that we continue to watch, but the punch line is, we think in this kind of a rising rate type of environment that we're in right now, GA should be a net beneficiary.

Operator
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Brian Bedell{BIO 3462988 <GO>}
Great. Thanks. Good morning, folks. My question is on fundraising, the $13 billion for 3Q. Can you unpack the real asset component of the fundraising that could only get about a third or so of that from the fund tables within that $6 billion in that segment? And then also if you can comment on the pension plan appetite and your view on that -- that channel given rising long-term rates? And then just one comment on the fundraising so far year-to-date being the second-best year. I imagine it's still a challenging environment near-term at least, so just wanted to be sure that you're not expecting fundraising to exceed the 2021, which of course is a record year with flagships?

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Hey, Brian, it's Craig, why don't I start. And I'll start on your last point first. Look, I think with market volatility, the tone of the fundraising market has become more challenging. But to be clear, we feel great about the body of work here. So as Rob noted and as you mentioned a second ago, the new capital raised for the first nine months of $65 billion. Again, through nine months, already the second most active fundraising year in our history without a lot of flagships in the market. And when I think back to where consensus estimates were for us at the beginning of this year, that number for 2022 for the full year was in that $55 billion to $60 billion range.

So again, we've already raised more capital relative to what was expected at the outset of the year and that's been accomplished in a more difficult fundraising environment. And we still got another quarter to go. So, look, I think again we feel great, but everything that we've accomplished. A couple of other thoughts. One, you mentioned the fundraising that we've had in some of the real asset areas, and when I think of activity for us in strategies like infrastructure, real estate, and credit, the strategies that can or should participate in a rising rate environment or inflation protected, that's been two-thirds of the capital that we've raised over the trailing 12 months.

And then finally, I think also in terms of innovation, over half of the capital we raised in the trailing 12 months again, were in strategies that didn't exist within KKR five years ago. In real assets, one of those contributors to the quarter is a great example. So our Asia Infrastructure strategy is a great example of this. It was outside of the mandate of our flagship fund series. The first-generation fund again we feel great about performance and that was certainly one of the contributors to real assets in the quarter. That would have been the largest piece as it relates to the infrastructure components.

And then within real estate, you had a handful of components. The largest of which would have included GA's contribution within our real-estate footprint. So but again, I think the main takeaway we feel really great about everything that we've done so far this year.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Yeah. The only thing I would add, Brian to your pension plan question, there's no doubt some U.S. pension plans are getting their bearings right now and trying to figure out where the market is going to go. But we're having a lot of very productive conversations to Craig's point around anything that's got an inflation protection element or yield. So we think credit, infrastructure, real estate we're having a lot of good dialogs on those fronts even with some of those that are still getting their bearings and maybe more active early part of next year, then the end of this year.

But remember we're spending a lot of time with institutions we've never spent time with before. So insurance companies globally are trying to figure out how to navigate the rate environment, sovereign wealth funds have a different dynamic entirely as do family offices and high net-worth investors. So we are having more dialog than we've ever had before about the markets in the macro and introducing what we're doing. And I think to the bigger broader point and you referenced this in your question, we were incredibly fortunate. We raised over $120 billion last year.

Our large flagships had been in the market over the last couple of years before the more recent more challenged markets. So we really got a bit lucky with our timing and that's why we have the $113 billion of dry powder to put to work. And in an environment like this companies still need capital. And we find private capital tends to have less competition at a time like this. Public markets are more difficult, corporate M&A is more challenged, so we've got a lot of capital to put to work, company is still need it.

Operator
Our next question is with Arnaud Giblat with BNP. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Arnaud Giblat{BIO 15145619 <GO>}
Good morning. My question is regarding capital deployment in infrastructure. You hopefully you gave us a quite an update on private equity. I'm just wondering if you could zoom in for a second on Infra? Other key players out there have been broadly unaffected by the macroenvironment deploying quite quick. I'm just wondering specifically how you see after in terms of deployments in the infrastructure and should we be thinking of a similar timeframe as you had experienced in the past and where the opportunity sets may line in Infra? Thank you.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Yes, Craig, what a nice start. Look, one main point, there is a massive need for infrastructure capital globally. And alongside of that massive need, you're really seeing a step function change in the footprint of our business. So whether that's our Global Infra fund series, Asia Infra fund series, Diversified Core, AUM two years ago was $15 billion, and today we're at $50 billion.

So alongside of that presence you're seeing similarly a step-function increase in terms of our deployment in that teams remained among the busiest within KKR. We've invested $11 billion of capital globally over the last 12 months in infrastructure. In 2020 that number was a little over $2 billion. So again you've seen a big ramp in that activity and that's something that I think we would expect that you should -- you should continue to see for us.

One of our largest deployments in the quarter within a -- it was a take-private of a French renewables business. We have another take private that is announced and scheduled to close in Q4. I think the take private dynamic is actually also something that's just worth mentioning, it's true in infrastructure, it's also true more broadly. We've announced again or we've closed on 14th [ph] private this year with a set to close in Q4. But again the main takeaway on Infra is a high level of activity for us.

A - Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Yeah. Out of Scott, I'd say the punch line is consistent with your comment. Our pipeline is strong across both value-add and core infrastructure. So we've been announcing deals and we continue to have a full pipeline.

Operator
Our next question is from Michael Cyprys with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Michael Cyprys{BIO 16672489 <GO>}
Great. Thanks. Maybe just continuing with the Real Asset. It seems there, can you talk a little bit about how you're expanding your capacity to invest in Real Assets? Where you're looking to expand the platform as you look out over the next year or two, where you're hiring and can you also talk about the sort of added benefit on the transactional revenue side as real assets deployment continues to come up, it looks like that was pretty strong in the quarter there as well. And then just a cleanup question for Rob, if you could just mention the investments in realizations off the balance sheet in the quarter? Thank you.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
You want to start with realizations?

A - Robert H. Lewin{BIO 21393464 <GO>}
Sure. In the quarter, Mike, thanks for the question. About $800 million of deployment and monetization, so it's a little bit north of $400 million off of the balance sheet.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
And what a nice start on the first part. I'll let Scott then add in. Well, I think if you look at, even though a statistic to kind of help frame the growth in the presence in the marketplace, we had $118 billion of AUM in real assets at the end of the quarter. Two years ago that number was $30 billion. And naturally, in the evolution of these businesses, your CapEx runs through your income statement. And so you hire people you need to bring on world-class talent to then have the opportunity to raise capital. And then you are looking to earn your right to grow build and scale both those funds themselves.

As well as where you see opportunities to expand into other areas where you can be relevant. So I think we feel -- we feel great about the progress that we've made. But our hockey sticks aren't in the air, as I think we see the opportunity set ahead of us, and look where the leading one or two providers are in some of those businesses and it just feels like there is a tremendous opportunity for us to continue to build and grow and scale of all of the growth that we've already, I think you've already begun to see.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Yeah. Just a couple of other thoughts. Mike, thanks for the question. Just take real estate, we'll take the two pieces of real assets in turn. Real estate, a few things I'd call out, one is Asia. We continue to expand the team. You saw the acquisition that we completed in Japan of the platform now called KJRM, we have 160 people now in Tokyo focused on what is the second largest real estate market in the world and that's a JV platform as a reminder. So Asia would be one thing I'd call out.

We've also expanded the platform, we started an opportunistic, but we've also now expanded the core plus. And so were raising capital across U.S., Europe, and Asia core plus. So that would be a second area I'd call out. Third, would be credit. Right now we think the real estate credit opportunity is very attractive as those financing markets have become more challenged in the traditional format. We're seeing excess return and a very strong pipeline across all we do in Real Estate Credit. That platform as a reminder is now approaching $30 billion of AUM. And that's all on top of the regular way opportunistic funds where we remain highly thematic and we're raising capital and continuing to build the teams.

In Infrastructure, similar set of themes. I call out again Asia, our Asia Infrastructure platform, Rob referenced it from a fundraising standpoint, but we continue to see a lot of opportunity there. And frankly, less on-the-ground competition, and that platform has scaled meaningfully and quite quickly. We are also building out our core infrastructure business and moving from value add into core in a bigger way and per the discussion earlier about some of the take private, I'd say Europe would be another area I called out. There's just a lot of activity and a lot of opportunity in particular lately on the renewable and energy transition front.

Operator
Our next question comes from Rufus Hone with BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Rufus Hone{BIO 19726898 <GO>}
Craig, good morning, thanks very much. I was hoping to get your thoughts around the trajectory of fee-related performance revenues and you had a fairly big increase this quarter from the real assets business. Can you give us a bit more detail about how we might think about the growth of that line item looking out a year or two and perhaps if you take a normalized view on investment performance and growth of some of the democratized products? Thank you.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Yeah, Rufus, you hit on it there at the end. As we think about that line item in our P&L, that is going to be largely driven by our open and in more perpetual vehicles that are more yield based in nature. As you would have heard a couple of times already on this call, we have a lot of conviction that we can scale that part of our business, we've got a lot of conviction that we continue to perform on behalf of that client base. And as you combine those two things, our view is you look over the coming quarters and years, you're going to see a real ramp-up in that line item overtime.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Q - Chris Kotowski{BIO 1507062 <GO>}
Yeah. I wonder if you could give us your thoughts on the financing markets. I guess Twitter has done, Tenneco got European approval, so the banks are in fact have some inventory to work through. And I'm wondering if you can talk a bit about how long do you think that is going to be an obstacle for financing transactions in the public markets and how much is -- how much is that an obstacle for you to do -- to pursue public to privates in general?

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
Hey, Chris, it's Craig. Why don't I start? Look, the financing markets have become more challenging certainly relative to a year ago and six months ago. But again we looked at that honestly as an opportunity for us and we mentioned that earlier. If you go back to 2020, we very creatively we're able to find lots of ways to deploy capital in very dislocated environments. So I'm not at all trying to minimize your thoughts or points of view on the banks et cetera, and you've seen a lot of that the impacts of that in broad statistics. But when you see that the broadly syndicated market in Q3 was at its lowest level since the global financial crisis.

That gives you a sense of how dislocated markets are and what that means and how things can become more challenging in financing in the broadly syndicated markets. Now there is a flip side to that coin obviously, as it relates to private credit. And I think we look at the environment in private credit currently and we are very, very constructive. So when syndicated markets are challenged and as Scott mentioned earlier, companies still need capital that's a really interesting opportunity for us. So base rates are higher, spreads are higher, protections are better, the risk-reward just feels like it's -- feels very attractive to us at this moment in time.

And the opportunity for us in our direct lending business is not only going to be in new transactions and new deals like the ones that you referenced, but historically around half of our deployment has traditionally come from companies where we're the incumbent lender and in markets like these where volumes are down and there is uncertainty, that percentage is even going to be higher. So if you look more recently that number would be at about 70%. So I think there are two sides of that coin, again on the top and bottom.

A - Scott C. Nuttall{BIO 2042083 <GO>}
Hey, Chris, it's Scott, just a couple of things. One, you used the word obstacle. I think first it's important to understand, we think it's a real opportunity for us. So to Craig's point, Private Credit deployment, Real Estate Credit deployment, we are seeing dramatically more interesting risk-reward than we saw even a few months ago. I'd also point to Mezzanin. We think this is going to be a really interesting opportunity for Mezz. New transactions with sponsors in particular tend to be over-equitized in this type of environment. And you've got a more attractive risk reward there. Opportunistic credit fundraising, every time the high-yield market trades below 85, then one-year returns tend to be in the high 20s. And so we're having really productive dialog with investors all around the world who are looking to pivot into the leveraged credit markets on the traded side, in addition to the private side.

You're right new deals are harder to finance. It's part of the reason we built the capital markets business and we have that team sitting in the middle of the firm, they conduct directly to debt investors, so we can place our own capital structures. You may lean a bit more on the private credit market in this environment and maybe some portable capital structures, where we refining ways to get deals done. So I think as we sit here today, we're finding ourselves incredibly enthusiastic about the opportunity that this environment represents for a large part of the firm across our credit platforms.

Operator
It appears that there are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the floor back over to Craig Larson for closing comments.

A - Craig Larson{BIO 17268926 <GO>}
We just like to thank everybody for your time and interest in KKR and we look forward to connecting next quarter. Thank you so much.

Operator
This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.