Q4 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Mark Shaver, Senior Vice President of Business Strategy & Health Systems Initiatives
Matt Carrus, General Counsel
Shankh Mitra, Chief Executive Officer
Tim McHugh, Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Amanda Sweitzer, Analyst, Baird
Connor Siversky, Analyst, Berenberg
Daniel Bernstein, Analyst, Capital One Securities
Derek Johnston, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Jonathan Hughes, Analyst, Raymond James
Jordan Sadler, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Joshua Dennerlein, Analyst, Bank of America
Juan Sanabria, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Lukas Hartwich, Analyst, Green Street
Michael Bilerman, Analyst, Citi
Michael Carroll, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Mike Mueller, Analyst, J.P. Morgan
Nick Yulico, Analyst, Scotiabank.
Omotayo Okusanya, Analyst, Mizuho
Richard Anderson, Analyst, SMBC Nikko Securities America
Stephen Sakwa, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Steven Valiquette, Analyst, Barclays
Todd Stender, Analyst, Wells Fargo
Vikram Malhotra, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q 2020 Welltower Inc. Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are on a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions) Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded (Operator Instructions)

I'd now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today to Mr. Matt Carrus.

Matt Carrus{BIO 19926029 <GO>}
Thank you, Operator, and good morning, everyone. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

With that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks. Shankh?

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Matt and good morning, everyone. First and foremost, I hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy during these extraordinary times. In the spirit of this year-end call, I would like to review year 2020, the most challenging in our history and discuss different parts of growth, long-term value creation for our continuing shareholders on par share basis. We came into 2020 prepared for perhaps a plain vanilla business cycle downturn. We pushed out our maturities in Q4 of 2019. Sold a lot of short duration assets, bought a lot of longer duration assets and continue to upgrade our portfolio, operators, management contract and talent.

We were hopeful that with the continued decline in senior housing deliveries and starts on one hand and the aging of the population finally picking up on the other hand that 2020 would serve an inflection point in the fundamentals after decade of weak demographics resulting from the aging of the baby birth generation. Then, a once-a-century pandemic happened that would turn out to be particularly devastating for our business.

The back half of first quarter, second and third quarter were all about long-term value preservation. We enhanced our liquidity profile dramatically by selling assets in record time at or near pre COVID pricing. More importantly we avoided mistake of raising long term dilutive capital, a consistent team for managing the company for continuing shareholder on a par share basis. We started during the dark days of March and April by selling a $1 billion of assets at great prices in record 43 days from signing a confidentiality agreement to receiving cash. We continued this journey during Q2 and Q3 and eventually executed on $3.7 billion of disposition at extraordinary prices to build an unprecedented war chest.

Two things particularly surprised me during this time, the resilience of our team including our extended team of operating partners and the liquidity of our assets. Not that we didn't have doubts or failures, but we continue to move forward in spite of them with a steady hand on the wheel and the unwavering belief that we'll get to the other side. Our team's stoic resilience reminded me every day of Winston Churchill's statement of quote that success is not final, failure is not final. It is the courage to continue that counts. In those moment of reckoning I realize how privileged I was to be part of this team that didn't miss a beat and blazed new trails.

For years I have heard that healthcare oriented real estate's deserve the discount to -- say shiny Tower in middle of a large gateway city due to the lack of liquidity and smaller ticket size, especially during down cycles. I hope that during the worst down cycle of our asset class this debate has been finally settled as demonstrated by our execution and that of our colleagues at Healthpeak.

In the fall we pivoted again from defense to office as we started underwriting and shaking hands on new acquisition. It is important for you to understand that we don't shake hands and find excuses to walk or chip away. If we shake hands, we close. Our handshake in this business is worth gold and we only enhanced our long-term reputation during this pandemic.

During last quarter's call, I discussed $1 billion of deep value opportunity. I'm delighted to report that we have closed roughly $700 million of acquisitions since the start fourth quarter at a significant discount to replacement cost. Our acquisition pipeline has grown meaningfully and as I sit here today I'm optimistic this year is shaping up to be a year of net acquisitions, perhaps significantly so. At the same time, I will remind you that we're not driven and incentivized by volume up acquisition, but the value of it. Asset price is the ultimate determinant of how we'll behave. In this moment of confusion and ambiguity I indulge you to focus on four distinct pillars of long-term value creation for Welltower.

One, operating fundamentals. Tim will get into the details of what happened last quarter and what might happen next quarter, while operating fundamentals is awful right now with little near-term visibility, we are optimistic about the vaccine rollout as 90% of our assisted living and memory care facilities have conducted the first vaccination clinic with virtually all residents taking the shot.

While I would not expect this to be a source of value creation in the very near term, I'm hopeful about the second half of the year. Normalization of operating performance remains the largest source of value creation for our shareholders. It is too early to comment on exact timing of the trough and the shape of the recovery, but we'll keep you posted frequently intra-quarter, so that you can see what we see.

Our focus remains on upholding the reputation of our communities and maintaining the safety of operator staff and residents. We spared no expenses and have already spent in excess of $80 million on COVID related expenses to date doing everything we can within our control to support their well-being. Due to the great reputation of our operators and the extraordinary value they provide rates are holding out.

In 2020, REVPOR was up 2% in AL memory care, 1% in independent living and 4.4% in our senior's apartment business. This growth occurred despite the headwind resulting from lower community fees driven by a decline in move in activity.

Number two, Operator Platform Enhancement, management contracts, leadership and system enhancements and building local scale are some of the examples of this. Let me highlight to specifics here. A) Sunrise. We're delighted by the appointment of Jack Callison as the CEO of Sunrise Living, our largest operating partner. Jack will bring much needed attention to operating excellence with an operations first culture. We are also negotiating a new management contract that will align the interest of Sunrise and Welltower as one of the assets. We are diligently working with the management of Rivera, Sunrise's majority owner to enhance Sunrise's position, so that it can emerge from this pandemic as a leading operator (inaudible). B) building local scale. If I can quote Charlie Munger, the advantage of local scales are of ungodly importance to this business. We have and will continue to scale our most important strategic partners as we expand our senior housing footprint. To name a few in alphabetical order bound for Balfour, Brandywine, Clover, Cogir, Frontier, Kelsey-Seybold, Kisco, Oakmont, StoryPoint are just some of the examples of the partners we have grown significantly during the pandemic. What is common among them? They are excellent operators in their market. They have great leadership. They are disciplined yet corrective and they have an alliance relationship with Welltower. We rise and fall together. This list is expanding with our significant opportunity steps that I mentioned few moments ago.

Number three, capital deployment opportunities. I've already commented on the acquisition opportunity on the deep value side. At the risk of sounding like a broken record I would remind you that we are IRR buyer with an incredible focus on basis operator and structure.

Our opportunity set is rising rapidly and I hope to provide you with more specific color in next 60 to 90 days. This comment is obviously focused on the current opportunity. Let me provide you some color on a related topic but on future opportunities. We at Welltower has never been in a more advantageous position as a partner of choice.

For years we have focused on growth strategy, driven by a relationship-based and alignment focus structures and data analytics platform rather than prioritize on cost and access to capital advantage. After all not all capital is equal. We never imagined that we'd encountered today's extreme threat. But as you can see we stood by our operators during the difficult time not only to preserve their businesses, but also to grow it significantly.

Talk is cheap but action is not. For this reason we are inundated with requests as the partner of choice from all asset classes we play in. As much as like zoom calls, we have been on road throughout the pandemic meeting with prospective partner. This is bearing meaningful fruits. We have executed more partnership and pipeline deals in last nine months then over five proceeding years combined. We expect to deploy $10 plus billion of capital in these opportunities in next few years.

In other words, we are not only executing on deep value early cycle opportunities but also laying a strong foundation of growth through the entire cycle what inevitably the significant price disturbances of today will be gone. To give you an example, we recently re-asked our Master Development Agreement for five years with Kelsey-Seybold, our largest MOB tenant. We're looking to start approximately 600,000 square-feet, a 100% pre-leased development in 2021 and 2022.

Number four talent opportunity, I touched on this last call. But let me elaborate for those of you who are focused on long term. We're seeing an incredible interest in our platform from seasoned professionals to allocate applicants. We have taken advantage of recent disruption and brought in 41 new professionals in 2020.We expect at least as many, if not more to join our teams in 2021.

In addition to new talent, our existing talent pool is taking on more responsibilities and reaching new heights. As a result, we had 50 new promotions at Welltower. Though this put some early pressure on G&A, which is partially offset by lower executive comp, we think this incredible talent pool is equivalent of a coiled spring which will manifest itself in a meaningful growth for the firm.

Speaking of talent pool. How is the mood inside today inside Welltower? What I described to you as a stoic resilience last year has transformed into an environment of optimism and unrivalled passion this year. I want to make it abundant clear; we have no crystal ball about the near-term operating fundamentals. But we are doing meaningful work that matter. We have meaningful relationship and we are seeing a new level of positive energy of people who wants to be part of this team internally and externally to create meaningful value and make a disproportionate impact.

With that I'll pass it over the microphone to Tim.

Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will focus on our fourth quarter 2020 results. The performance of all of our investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity and finally balance sheet liquidity update in our first quarter outlook.

The fourth quarter was a tough end to a very challenging year and the ongoing impact of corona virus accelerated meaningfully in the back half of the fourth quarter and in the beginning of 2021. The visibility for large parts of our business beyond the next 90 days remain very limited and very dependent on virus related variables such as unpredictable path of growth, the rollout and efficacy of the vaccine and the continuation of population lockdown mandates.

As a result of this uncertainty, we decided to provide a first quarter outlook this morning in place of the full-year outlook, we would normally provide in our fourth quarter call. As we have done over the last year, we will continue to disclose updated information on a frequent basis with the intention of providing a more complete outlook as soon as the variants of the virus-related variables moderate to a level that allows for liable forecasting.

Now turning to the quarter, Welltower reported net income attributable to common shareholders of $0.39 per diluted share, and normalized funds from operations of $0.84 per diluted share. Normalized FFO was sequentially flat in the third quarter and the decline in senior housing operating earnings and dilution from dispositions to close over the last two quarters was offset by recognition of HHS funds, lower G&A, lower interest expense and initial returns on reinvested capital.

Now turning to our individual portfolio components. First with our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder our triple-net lease portfolio coverage in occupancy stats reported a quarter in arrears. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 930 in 2020 and therefore only reflect a partial impact COVID-19. Importantly our collection rate remained high in the fourth quarter, having collected 97% of triple-net contractual rent due in the period.

Starting with our senior housing triple net portfolio; same-store NOI declined 2.7% year-over-year as leases that were moved to cash recognition in prior quarters, continue to comp against prior full year contractual rent received. Occupancy was down 260 basis points sequentially, consistent with the average occupancy drop from 2Q to 3Q in our RIDEA portfolio and EBITDAR coverage decreased 0.1 times on a sequential basis in this portfolio to 1.01 times.

During the quarter we transitioned a UK development portfolio from triple-net to RIDEA, transitioned 14 former triple-net Capital Senior assets to new operators in RIDEA structures and disposed of one asset. And to the net impact of increasing coverage by point 0.3 times. Consistent with my comments in the past our senior housing triple net lease operators experienced similar headwinds as our day operators over the past nine months. And we expect reported lease coverage stats to continue to reflect these challenges as more of the pandemic periods are reflected in EBITDAR going forward.

That being said, the resilience of this portfolio is reflected by the continued high cash collection rates is encouraging. As I described last quarter we entered into agreement with Capital Senior in the beginning of 2020, which allowed for an early termination of CSU's leases on 24 Welltower owned assets in exchange for full rent being paid in 2020 in cooperation with transitioning the operations of these assets.

We transition 14 properties operated by CSU to new operators in the fourth quarter. In addition to five that were transitioned during the third quarter and anticipate the remaining assets be transitioned to new operators in the first half of 2021. As a result of the continued COVID backdrop, the initial expected dilution from these conversions is expected to be approximately $0.04 per share in 2021. Additionally, the conversion of the development portfolio in the UK from triple-net to RIDEA is also expected to negatively impact normalized FFO by $0.04 per share in 2021. The combination of these two transactions is expected to result in the sequential roll down a little over $0.02 per share of normalized FFO from Q4 to Q1. Next our long-term post-acute portfolio generated 2% year-over-year same-store growth. However EBITDAR coverage declined by 5.01 times sequentially to 1.0 times, which was almost entirely due to deterioration in our largest long-term post-acute tenant Genesis HealthCare.

As we noted last quarter Genesis HealthCare, which made some approximately half of our long-term post-acute exposure raised concerns around stability to continue as a going concern in the second quarter financials filed on August 10. And result of this concern Welltower began recording revenue and cash basis in the third quarter. Furthermore we wrote down our unsecured loan exposure then by $80 million in the fourth quarter. Similar to our Genesis lease income we've been recognizing all interest on our unsecured loans on a cash basis, so it's impairment does not change income recognition on these loans. Genesis remains current on all financial obligations to Welltower through January.

And lastly health systems which comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with the ProMedica Health System. We had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.7% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 2.27 times.

Turning to Medical Office. Our outpatient medical office portfolio delivered positive 2.1% year-over-year same-store growth modestly below long-term trends. Growth continued to be negatively impacted by reserves for uncollected rent. The large majority of which resulting from lease enforcement moratoriums in several California jurisdictions in which we have a sizable footprint as I described last quarter. As these moratoriums expire, we expect rent collection to improve from 98.5% received in the fourth quarter.

Looking back to 2020, our outpatient medical platform displayed incredible resilience in a truly challenging year which includes periods of time with basic appointments and procedures were flat out not permitted, yet we still managed to grow same-store NOI an average of positive 1.7%. During the fourth quarter we continue to observe improvements in several key operating trends as business continue to normalize, notably a pickup in our leasing pipeline, which will start to reflect in occupancy, positive occupancy pick up towards the back half of 2021.

Now, turning to our Senior Housing Operating portfolio. Before getting into this quarter's results, I want to point out that we received approximately $9 million from the Department of Health and Human Services CARES Act provide a relief fund and post quarter we received another $34 million, delivering $8 million and $31 million of net-expected proceeds at our share. We are recognizing these funds on a cash basis until they flow-through financials in the quarter in which they are received. We are normalizing these HHS funds at a same-store metrics, however, along with any other government funds received that are not match to expenses incurred in the period they were received. In the fourth quarter, there are approximately $11.8 million of reimbursement normalized out of our same-store senior housing operating results, manly tied to the HSS program in the U.S.

Now, turning to results of the quarter. Same-store NOI decreased 33.8% as compared to fourth quarter 2019 and decreased 11.3% sequentially from the third quarter. Starting with revenue sequential same-store revenue was down 2.4% in Q4, driven primarily by 160 basis point drop in average occupancy. As a reminder, we started the fourth quarter with relative optimism on the occupancy front with improving year-over-year move-in volumes and relatively low prevalence of COVID within our communities. However, these positive trends rapidly reverse as the exponential rise in global COVID case in November and December, with the city and state-wide lockdowns and admissions bans across many of our key MSAs. Particularly in the UK and California, which together comprised 34% of our SHO portfolio NOI. The result of this was 180 basis points of occupancy loss from November through year-end. And I've stated on our third quarter call, the path of COVID will dictate our business trends in the fourth quarter -- not seasonality and not the seasonal flu. And that has proved quite through over the past 3.5 months.

Turning to REVPOR in the quarter, total SHO portfolio REVPOR was down 1.2% year-over-year and flat sequentially. And as I described last quarter, mix shift is distorting the true picture of rent growth metrics, as standalone year-over-year REVPOR growth for our active adult, independent living and assisted living segments were positive 3.7%, 0.5% and 1.1% respectively. The combined total portfolio metric is being impacted by considerable changes in composition of occupied units in the year-over-year portfolio, as lower acuity properties, independent living and senior departments have held up considerably better on the occupancy front since the start of COVID which has had the mathematical impact of having a higher portion of our total portfolio occupied units being lower acuity and therefore lower rent paying units. The point being, rental rates are proving more resilient across our portfolio than would appear in our aggregate reported statistics.

And lastly, expenses. Total same-store expenses declined 2.1% year-over-year and increased 50 basis points sequentially. I'll focus on the sequential since the changes are more relevant to trends in the current operating environment. The 50 basis point increase in operating cost was driven mainly by higher sequential COVID costs as a result of the surging cases in the fourth quarter.

Decline in top line combined with these expense pressures had a meaningful impact on our operating margins, which declined 220 basis points sequentially in 22.3%. As I noted earlier in the call, we do not include government reimbursement that was not tied to period expenses in our same-store results. And therefore, COVID expenses negatively impacted same-store by $18.9 million in the quarter. We will stay consistent with distributing Q1 where we've already received a net $31 million in HHS funds that would likely turn COVID expenses into a net benefit if included in our same-store as an offset.

Looking forward to the first quarter and starting with 2021 year-to-date data we've already observed, we've experienced 180 basis point decline in occupancy through February 5th. Given the still heightened presence of COVID, we expect average occupancy to be down 275 to 375 basis points from fourth quarter to first quarter.

Note that we providing the average occupancy as opposed to spot occupancy as the former better ties to our reported financials, and therefore 260 basis points of our expected 275 to 375 basis point decline is already banked, given the swift drop from mid-November to date in occupancy. We expect monthly REVPOR to be down 20 basis points sequentially. Although it should be noted that actual rent per unit is up 2.1% sequentially. With mixed shift, which I mentioned earlier and two fewer days in the quarter, skewing reported REVPOR versus actual rent growth. Lastly, we expect total expenses to be effectively flat as higher sequential COVID costs were offset by less labor utilization due to lower occupancy levels.

Turning to capital markets activity. Throughout 2020, we took a series of actions that were difficult resulting in our ability to retain significant cash flow and ultimately gave us greater control to navigate through the pandemic. It's worth highlighting that despite the stress endured by our business, we've avoided the destabilization of the balance sheet by borrowing the pivot dividend or being forced in raising equity or selling assets at unattractive valuations.

Given where we sit today, the $2.1 billion of cash and over $5.1 billion of available liquidity, we are pleased with our course of actions being the most prudent way to maximize balance sheet stability and positioning us to take advantage of attractive capital deployment opportunities. In addition to shoring up the balance sheet, we undertook a series of actions to optimize spend and maximize retained cash flow by reducing our corporate overhead through tighter cost controls and fine-tuning of capital expenditure plans.

We also made the decision in May reduce our quarterly dividend by 30% given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic's timeline and severity. Despite the pandemic's substantial negative impact on our business, our actions throughout 2020 removed any dependence on a quick recovery and also affords us the opportunity to be patient with respect the transaction market and take advantage of attractive private market valuations relative to public markets while also highlighting the institutional demand for a high-quality portfolio.

Over the course of the year, we sold $3.7 billion of pro rata assets at a blended 5.4% yield including $1.3 billion of senior housing operating assets and a price per unit of $332,000 per bed. Most recently the fourth quarter, we sold the portfolio of senior housing operating properties operated by Northbridge for $200 million representing a 4.9% cap rate on March trailing 12-month NOI and $395,000 per unit.

Also, in the fourth quarter, we announced a new joint venture partnership with certain investment vehicles managed by Wafra. The joint venture comprised the portfolio of 24 outpatient medical properties, previously majority-owned by Welltower. Many of these transactions were completed in the midst of significant disruption to real estate and capital markets from the long-term viability of our senior housing assets in particular were being called into question.

While we are pleased with the execution and disposition front, we are excited to now be executing on the acquisition side with financial flexibility and ample liquidity. On our third quarter earnings call, Shankh described a $1 billion acquisition pipeline and since start of the fourth quarter, we have closed on $657 million at a blended initial yield of 4.5% with an expected stabilized yield over 7.5%.

Lastly, moving to our first quarter outlook. Last night we provided an outlook for the first quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.24 to $0.29 and normalized cents per diluted share of $0.71 to $0.76 per share. The midpoint of our guidance, $0.735 per share represents a sequential decline of approximately $0.105 per share from the fourth quarter.

This $0.105 decline is composed of an $0.08 decline in senior housing operating results driven by $0.06 of fundamental decline and $0.02 of increased COVID costs, a $0.03 per share sequential decline in triple-net senior housing NOI. A little over $0.02 of which is related to the Capital Senior and signature UK transitions mentioned earlier with the remainder due to fundamental decline on cash recognition leases. A $0.02 per share decline related to net investment activity in Q4 and Q1 and $0.03 related to a combination of other items mainly made up of increased G&A, income tax and a slight decline in interest income.

These declines were offset by a 5.5% increase in pro rata HHS funds received to date in the first quarter. As a reminder, we're only guiding the HHS funds that have already been received as of today's call.

And with that I will hand the call back over to Shankh.

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Tim. I want to end with two things before we open it up for questions. First, I'm excited about the collaboration that is the March between our peers and us. We have worked diligently with HealthFit, Ventas and Omega to address operator and industry issues and towards mutually-beneficial transaction. For example, it was our absolute pleasure to work with Tom Herzog and his team on two separate transactions totalling $170 million. I am positive we are embarking on a new era of collaboration amongst the public companies in our space. Second, in spite of the challenges being faced by our industry today, our confidence in our business has not changed and I'm hopeful that my comments this morning have provided you with a framework for how we intend to create long-term value for all of our stakeholders. We're grateful to be part of your portfolio as our shareholders. Personally, this management team has established a highly-concentrated position in Welltower. In fact, neither Tim nor I have sold a single share of the stock that we have received on a post-tax basis since we have come on board a few years ago, which should be an indication to you our fellow shareholders, of our conviction and personal stake we have in this business. As Buffett taught us, 'diversification may preserve wealth, but concentration builds wealth'. This does not mean the path forward will be without challenges, but it is clear that we are all in on this company and that our alignment with you, our shareholders, is strong and significant.

With that, we'll open the call up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you, Sir. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi, good morning, and thank you for the time. Just on the acquisition front, you guys talked about the $1 billion pipeline and being confident on more opportunities. I was hoping you could provide a little bit more color on what the focus is? Is it still on the value opportunities and seniors housing buying it? That great basis and if that's the case or more generally, if you can give color on the timeline to stabilization from the low cap rates going in, what we should expect in terms of when you get those stabilized yields?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Juan. Good morning. That is our focus, is to buy at least in the near term basis value opportunities that are significant discount to replacement cost, where we can bring in the right operators or by with the right operators, if it is owned by some other capital partners of our operators. So, we're focused on basis, we're focused on operator, we're focused on structure. Interestingly, we are starting to see some opportunities where the initial yield is not as much of a drag. That's just a coincidence. We're not focused on that, we're focused very much on basis structure and operators and I expect that our blended yield of the opportunities when we talk about next quarter will actually be dragged up overall by this set of opportunities. But I can tell you that is not our focus. We're purely focused on basis structure and operator.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Any color on timeline to get to the stabilized yields? If it just generally ties to the overall length of the recovery, I know, which is (inaudible). I appreciate it.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Juan, it is purely dependent on the shape of the recovery and when it drops, which I've already said that I'm not going to comment on. The very uncertain environment that is precisely why that we are buying these value opportunities, so that we don't have to be dependent on that. Right? So, if we had a perfect sense of what the shape of the card looks like and when it perfectly drops, then we would be buying everything we possibly can -- which we are not. We're very focused on a significant discount to replacement cost for that very reason. But again, we need more time to give you a general sense of what that looks like, but it depends on assets to assets. We're buying assets that are 82% occupied. We're buying assets that are 22% occupied. So, it's very hard to make a general comment on what we think the shape of that accretion looks like.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

Q - Stephen Sakwa
Thanks. Good morning. Shankh and Tim, I know you can't really comment on sort of the exact bottoming and timing of the recovery, but maybe talk about sort of the move-ins and the conditions that you think you need to see within your facilities kind of in the macro in order to ultimately start to drive move in volume given what we've seen on the decline?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Yes. Thanks, Steve. So, I think the first and foremost, what we've seen learned over the last 10 months is that one, cases our buildings have is very much mirrored each other and the viruses presents itself is pretty challenging kind of key part of anywhere. So, I think you want to talk about the macro and being cases. We're kind of speaking to both those at the same time, but we've seen both the negative and positive case counts rising poll start to impact our business 30 to 45 days afterwards. That makes sense given thinking about kind of the sales cycle and on average kind of 30 days of a start to lead to a close. So, what we need to see is the direction we're seeing right now in case counts to continue. We need to see slightly the vaccinations that are going on at national level in our buildings to then allow for that to be kind of held at a low level. And we're seeing those things take place now. But as of this call, we're still very much in an elevated level of cases naturally in our building. So, I think what we need to see is for this current level to thrash to continue with the low levels to sustain itself in. And we'll start to see some early indicators of that if that direction continues over the next month or so and the fundamental impact on our business would come as I said, kind of 30 to 45 days after that. It comes down to simply the path of COVID and it's a big reason of kind of the outlook being one quarter a year, not the full year because I think any full year outlook would essentially be just a more of a guidance on one of the path of where the virus goes, which is something that we don't think we've got a better view on and those of you in the market. So it really comes down to just COVID.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Connor Siversky from Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Connor Siversky{BIO 20721733 <GO>}
Good morning, everybody. Thanks for having me on the call. Appreciate the detail in the prepared remarks. I'm looking at lease maturities, specifically as it relates to the post-acute care portfolio in 2021. I'm just wondering how those conversations are progressing and if there is any kind of expectation for renewal rates?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
I'm sorry, say that again, Connor? You said which leases?

Q - Connor Siversky{BIO 20721733 <GO>}
So the release maturity is related to the post-acute care portfolio and then how those conversations are progressing?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So Conner, the conversation with all tenants it's the same, right? If a tenant wants to focus on what is the near-term fundamentals right now and project that as the future, then I don't think that's our right tenant. And if we have to, you cannot think about this business as what is happening right now. And mark, at least to market on that basis on today's fundamentals. So just not how we think about it. I laid out the whole framework of how we think about leases in a previous call, I'm not going to bore you with the details, but the conversations are always the same. What is the -- in a normalized cash flow of the business? What does that mean from a value as well as the last dollar basis of that lease the leverage in fact, right?

So that's how we think about leases. That's why we do leases, new leases, and renewal leases. And that's all going to move forward. If we think that our tenants and us we can agree on what is the long-term value of our real estate is then we have to move forward with a different operator. Our value is in the real estate and we know how to preserve it.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Tim with regard to the seniors housing triple-net portfolio in your prepared remarks, can you kind of provide some color on what percent of the operators are being recognized on a cash basis, and I guess what are they paying today versus their contractual rents. And just real quick, off of that in that (inaudible) coverage stratification heat map that you have and is that coverage ratio reflected on their contractual rent or is that reflected on the rent that you're currently paying today?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Thanks, Mike. So it's a little over 5% of our triple-net and line is reflected as cash and its contractual rent and the heat map if things move to cash there removed in the heat map because essentially at that point are one-for-one in relative to what's being reflected in our earnings and what's being received in cash, and that kind of is not relevant to actual contractual, I mean also could kind of inflating coverage's. So if it move to cash essentially what if we move it off because at that point earnings is reflecting exactly that cash. And I'd say just as kind of relative to areas of where we've seen CapEx ignition where EBITDAR is kind of fallen relative to rent. It's kind of probably been in the 0.5 to 0.75 time's coverage areas.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Derek Johnston from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Hi, everybody good morning. Spot occupancy stands at 74.4% for show, and with COVID cases declining in most of your residents likely vaccinated by the end of first quarter, is this 275 basis points to 375 basis points of further decline in occupancy that you're guiding? Is this your estimate of Welltower's pandemic trough occupancy, given what we know today?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
So what we're estimating in our actual first quarter guidance, with my prepared remarks I alluded to this, but if we were to be -- if today's occupancy was be held from here through the quarter end, we'd end up at an average occupancy decline from Q4 to Q1 of 260 basis points and our guidance is for 225 basis points of decline from Q4 to Q1.

So our expectation is that, given the heightened COVID cases on a national basis that declines in occupancy continue, and we're not making a call on the direction of COVID, which would therefore impact occupancy. In short, no, we are not calling today's occupancy trough.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Jordan Sadler{BIO 15075677 <GO>}
Thanks and good morning. I know that you have some optimism because you've transitioned from defense to offense and began buying assets again, so I just wanted to get a little bit of a sense of what your thinking is, as you're underwriting these assets in terms -- and I mean seniors housing specifically, in terms of the pace of potential lease up.

So, on the other side of this spike in COVID, how do you think about what -- and maybe you can give us some brackets for what lease up occupancy might look during the peak leasing season April to September.

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Thanks, Jordan. So I can put some brackets around it. Just thinking through pre-COVID occupancy levels, we've talked a bit this year, looking at move-ins as a percentage of pre-COVID levels and to give an idea of not only how much they've declined since the start of COVID, but where they sit relative to levels in 2019.

If you look at move-in levels from April to September 2019 and compare that to move out level we saw in the fourth quarter of this year, so just the most recent experience, which is a bit heightened relative to historical. But as you can see in our stats, certainly is not spiking, you would see 100% back to pre-COVID demand levels, 90 to 110 basis points of occupancy increases on a monthly basis. That's really a product of, again, demand coming back quite a bit. You look at January of 2021 and we're at 50% prior-year move-in.

So thinking about that 50% to back to pre-COVID levels, that's quite a decline from here, but another way to look at it is we likely have to get back to 65% of pre-COVID demand levels to get to breakeven on occupancy. And then, from there builds to start to gain and just putting that in context, when COVID did come down in the late summer, early fall 2020, we did see demand is measured by move-insurance, move back to kind of 70% of prior year. So, we've seen demand move back in that range during COVID pre-vaccine, but certainly we're well below that now. So current trends in move in side have gotten worse, but hopefully that gave you an idea of where they could move to, if demand really comes back to pre-COVID levels in the short-term, and also where we need them to get to just see some stabilization in the portfolio.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Jordan, that does not mean that we are underwriting that winter in this April to the early summer to fall leasing season. We're going to see that occupancy increase. If we did that, we would buy every product that we can possibly buy in the market.

So I want to remind you that we are not -- we're focused on basis so that our value creation is not dependent on our ability to pinpoint the shape of the recovery. It is purely dependent on what it takes to build the building and if you can buy it at a significant discount, the two things will happen, right? You can wait for the demand to come back and if you can make money at obviously at a 50% to 60% discount to replacement cost, then no one will build a new building at the replacement cost because they have to charge a lot more than you.

So ultimately in any capital-heavy asset class like real estate, assuming your overall demand is increasing, ultimately the demand supply will balance. If I can make money at discount to replacement cost, you will not be able to make money by building a new one at replacement cost. This is a particularly interesting phenomena in this cycle and more cycles what you see is replacement -- I mean, the cost to build goes down when a recession hits because housing is white horse [ph], replacement cost is actually spiking through this particular cycle. That keeps even a bigger gap as we think through a cycle.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Joseph from Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Bilerman{BIO 15926660 <GO>}
It's Michael Bilerman here with Nick. Two-part question, Shankh, just in relation to partners and relationship that you talked about during your opening comments. You talked about a $10 billion pipeline of opportunities, as you've executed more partnerships for the last 9 months than we did in the 5 years prior. And you mentioned $600,000 pre-leased MOB [ph].

Can you just step back and break down on that $10 billion in little bit more detail about what comprises it, what sectors in the timeline? And then the second part of the relationships, you talked about this new collaboration with your fellow healthcare REITs, what drove the change in those relationships?

I think it's definitely a positive. It's nice to see. But what was the drivers? If I think you've been a little bit more critical over time and I just want to know what led to these new found positive relationships?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay. Let me take the second one first because that's the easy one. I don't believe that I've ever been critical our peer companies. What led to the collaboration is that I reached out to my fellow CEOs and we absolutely agree that we need to work on this industry issues and operator issues together and I got a very warm reception, so it's that very simple.

I mean, it is true that we have to work on this and there is a power in bigger numbers and we have very smart companies in our space from very confident and smart management team. It is only in our interest to work together to solve these bigger issues than work alone; so that's a simple one. I'm not going to get into the first question. I will tell you that we are creating, as I said, we're very much focused on, from an acquisition side, on two things. Early cycle opportunities that obviously we're executing and we will be very pleased as the year progress how that will shake out, but we're very much cognizant of the fact that early cycle opportunities eventually that will be gone. So, if we start working on then what will eventually become as a normal cycle opportunity, it's too late. So we have never stopped and it is also pretty much -- it could be a very advantageous position to be a large company in our space, the largest company in our space, which we're expanding rapidly and we didn't bat an eyelid and stopped, because we believe in the business as a laid out.

We are -- you have to think about it, this is a very interesting business where you have to work with other people and you have to work with operators, you have to work with developers, in many cases are one and the same and to grow, create value together, not at the expense of each other, that alignment is extremely important and this last nine, 10 months has given us the opportunity to work with more of our operators. And frankly speaking, as you can see, being aligned with Welltower has created significant -- and is continue to create significant value for our operators who is -- if you think about, if you are not aligned with capital source that has the capability and the fierce result to deploy capital to this disruption then ultimately, as I said, you come to the other end of the cycle and is too late.

So I'm not going to get into what that looks like, I just give you one example. 600,000 square foot of 100% pre-leased MOBs; Michael, you can do the math and think about how much value creation, and that is not a pipeline, that is just a stock that we are sitting here today between 2021 and 2022.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Hughes from Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonathan Hughes{BIO 19065362 <GO>}
Hey, good morning. Could you talk about your underwriting assumptions on the recent shop acquisitions at a mid-three yield? And the reason I ask is, because using some of the assumptions laid out in the December 2018 Investor Day, exit price and 7% IRR requirement, it implies a high single-digit NOI growth CAGR for the next decade. I know you won't comment on the growth in the recovery trajectory, but maybe some of those other assumptions like exit price have changed versus two plus years ago. So any details we're thought about how you underwrite shop and compared to perhaps now higher-yielding but more stable and slower-growing medical office buildings would be helpful. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Jonathan, it depends, obviously, every asset is different, where you buy that asset, what basis you buy that assets is completely different. When we made that presentation, we never thought we'll be able to buy assets at a meaningful discount to replacement cost. If you look at pre-pandemic healthcare real estate, particularly on the senior housing, usually traded at a mild to modest premium to replacement cost, because the healthcare income has the multiple, not a real estate multiple, but it's still a multiple. So in asset class, where you're starting above some level of replacement cost, you're going to keep your pricing power really strong through the whole cycle. And the next buyers analysis, you have to think about your next buyer talented, and the next buyer has to also believe that will continue, that by implication, you're buying above replacement cost and you're are selling above replacement costs. Are you making a bet that the NOI growth, if you're not -- NOI growth will meaningfully outstrip the cost of construction increase, right?

So in both sides, you are at some form of above replacement cost, that equation changes completely when you can buy at a significant discount to replacement cost. So if you buy $0.50 on the dollar and at some period of normalization, you intend to sell it at $0.1 on the dollar, you are still at a significant discount to the previous state when your buyer balances is much, much easier. Nothing has changed except the price and that's price tells you why we're so excited about it today.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Amanda Sweitzer from Baird. Please go ahead.

Q - Amanda Sweitzer{BIO 22726631 <GO>}
Great, thanks for taking my question. As you think about building occupancy post-pandemic, how are you thinking either about changing service levels or where and how you invest CapEx, if at all, in order to attract new residents?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay. So this is a question that has a -- I don't want to be too long-winded and give you an answer. It depends on the price -- really the service level of the assets inside those buildings today and we don't increase occupancy, our operating partners do, and we work with our operating partners in service levels, CapEx needed and everything, but this is a collaborative process and I don't want to sit here and tell you that this is -- we have the operating expertise to do that. I'm assuming you're asking a sharper question. We have the best operators in the business that are very, very good in what they do, and the local dominance in the marketplace, obviously, as well as this particular service area is very much of what we are depending on.

Having said that, we have worked diligently with our operators on payer and provider integration and this is -- as I said, this is a very long answer to a question, we are happy to take this offline. And have you talked to Mark Shaver who leads this, obviously this process in ourSHOP, but the pricing question, the service question, is more of an operator question than a Welltower question. CapEx question is definitely something that we work together. Having said that, the payer and provider integration is something that we are leading, and our operators are collaborating with us, but that's a long discussion. And we'll take this offline, if this is of interest to you.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson from SMBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Richard Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Thanks and good morning. And just a comment on the olive branch you're extending your peers and they to you is like red meat to me, so happy to hear about that type of collaboration in the space. And speaking of collaboration, one of the things the gaming sector has noticed -- gaming REIT sector has noticed, the ability to expand margins post-pandemic and some lessons learned about what was wasteful in their four walls and perhaps a better product at the other side of this. A question is on shop, I know there's a lot of talk about margins going down, of course, these days, but do you envision that there will be some positive lessons learned from all of this and that, ultimately, part of your interest in senior housing and shop specifically, is that there is a margin expansion thesis down the road here, maybe two, three years down the road, perhaps, that will come out of this, or should we not be thinking along those lines?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
So, Rich, that's a very good question and one when we've talked about actually with our operators through last period, the last six months. I think I'll answer in two ways. The first is on the lessons learned. Absolutely, this has made our operators look at their cost constraints in a more critical way than they probably could have imagined, just given the pressure in occupancy and getting back to levels that for a lot of them look like they haven't been in since at least up some years ago. We've had feedback from operators in large platform saying they found ways to do things, from a labor front, just a lot more efficiently. And given the feedback, you know, ahead of time to what you're speaking to, that when you start to see the business come back and you think there is significant cost savings in the labor model as far as getting a bit more leverage off it.

On the margin side, I would hesitate to speak to that from a margin expansion story just driven purely by that, as of yet. As you know, there is cost and the structure right now that are being added because of COVID. We feel pretty confident that a lot of these things are temporary, but given that, there's two things to speak now and our margin expansion story will having those costs in the current business and having an unclear picture of when and how the virus moves away from our business. I think we'd be a bit aggressive, but I do think the margin expansion story of thinking about a relative, even where we were pre-pandemic. We think there is an occupancy story in this space. Just given the demand story and that I think that makes -- still keeps us very positive on the spaces, that long-term demand story hasn't changed in the pandemic and certainly has been a very impactful last nine months to 12 months. And it to continue to be in the near future but in long-term demand story stands, and that's going to lift occupancy and there's a lot of operating leverage in this business even without changes to the structure.

So, you're going to see an industry occupancy lift up over the next three to five years. I think you are going to see margins move above where they were pre-pandemic, even without those operating efficiencies being put into the model.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Rich, I'll just add two things, one is that we obviously -- I would encourage you, and our team would be happy to set it up, to talk to Mark Shaver and our team with what we're doing on the payer provider side, and which should help margins, as well. The second lesson learned, I would say on a margin point -- it is one of the lessons learned in our shop, though not just this pandemic, but through last few years, is that you should not lend money to an entity or any type of entity where you are not willing to take the keys. At the REIT, we're not allowed to obviously own an operating company more than 35%. So we should not lend money to operating companies where we're not able to take over the assets.

Today, we are only focused obviously in the last few years and through the cycles, through the pandemic. We're only focused on if we write a credit check, we only write if we are completely able to take all the assets and we're very happy owner of the asset on the large dollar exposure that we have. That is a big lesson learned inside our shop and a good one for the long-term value creation of our shareholders.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Yulico from Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning everyone. So a couple of questions just here on the vaccine rollout. Clearly, it's important in terms of getting move in activity back. And so I was hoping to get some stats on what the adoption rate has been of the vaccine by residents and staff members so far.

And then, I'm also wondering, we saw an announcement from Atria, which is very vocal, saying that they were requiring staff members to get vaccinated by May and we haven't seen anything from Sunrise. And so, I guess I'm wondering as a part-owner there in Sunrise, are you pushing for that policy? And maybe just give us an update on what that policy is in regards to staff members across your operators in assisted living. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Nick. I'll answer the second question; Mark will answer the first question.

We have tremendous amount of respect for John Moore and his team at Atria. We do not comment on the vaccine policy of different operators, we work with our operators and supportive of their different policies, I can tell you everybody's focus is to get to the right place. How they get there is the decision that the management teams and the CEOs of specific operators to take that.

We do not push for one or the other, but I can tell you that everybody is focused on the same outcome.

A - Mark Shaver{BIO 19698084 <GO>}
Yes. So just to give some stats, the relationships the operators have with CVS and Walgreens has worked quite positively. We've seen over 120,000 vaccinations across the platform as of earlier this week, about 90% of our communities have completed their first clinic and very actively working through the second clinic. We feel by the end of February, first week of March, most, if not all, of the second clinics will have taken place.

With regards to adoption and consent, 90 plus percent of residents have consented or received the vaccination, 55% of staff across the portfolio, that varies from operator to operator, have consented to receive the vaccination. We're not going to get into specifics on number of vaccines by individual, some of this is SKUs, you may be aware that if there was active COVID or an active COVID diagnosis in the prior 20 days, an individual has to wait to delay that. So we are focusing really on consent and the percentage of vaccinations that have occurred across the communities. We're happy to provide additional color, but those the highlights.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Mike Mueller{BIO 21129707 <GO>}
Curious on how are the yields on the various new developments you're looking at, compared to what underwriting would have been in pre-pandemic?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Our target yields have not changed. Market conditions have changed, still obviously we're even more critically thinking about the cost, as well as a land price, and ultimately how much it takes to -- obviously how long it takes to get to that stabilization and the working capital loss in between.

So our focus again, as I said, you have to imagine these things, the long-term we think about, at least the development that we're interested in, you were talking about a five, six-year cycle. So you have to really think hard about when do you start, when it actually finishes, when you get your approval and just for an example, as you know, for last few months of last year or so, we have walked on in new development project in Brookline, it is one of the hardest place to build in the country.

You can change your view depending on how you're feeling about your occupancy today that's a five to seven-year process and so, our return thresholds have not changed. Clearly what we think on the trend yields, the trending has changed, given what is going on in the business today, and we still need to make money on an un-trended basis to start these developments. So that's how we're thinking about it.

Q - Mike Mueller{BIO 21129707 <GO>}
Got it. Okay.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Q - Todd Stender{BIO 5527078 <GO>}
Thanks. Your data analytics team has been instrumental in having you drill down on MSAs just for senior housing, of course, but can you share the recommendations that you're providing now, just in light of lingering new supply, out migration from more urban cities due to COVID, maybe any specifics you can share?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Todd, we have the ability to tell you today. First is there not just focused on senior housing, the team has built a platform has been enhanced pretty meaningfully in last few quarters. So we have, they will do well way beyond what we have seen in senior housing incremental office and other housing businesses such as active adult where we play pretty heavily.

One of the questions that you raised, which is the migration pattern, you can do. We have a team in fact team, which has been working on this data scientists today. I'm glad to tell you that we have ability to do pinpoint that outmigration or in migration on a weekly basis, not just focused on the longer term data such as ACS and IRS data, but also a cell phone data and other more near term or more instantaneous sort of data.

I don't mean instantaneous, I didn't right at this point, but we can tell you on most on a weekly basis. Not almost on a weekly basis. We can tell you on a weekly basis where people have moved out or moved in. That is very much we are flowing through our models as we're making investments. As you know that we're very, very focused on making new investments on all the asset classes we deal in and it's a definitely a big part of why we're seeing today the attractiveness of us as a capital has enhanced in last few months are few quarters because we're still standing here and taking advantage of the disruption in the marketplace but also that huge effective analytics platform that we have built over many years that our partners are attracted to.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Valiquette{BIO 1928887 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning everybody. So a couple of questions here, I guess, first regarding REVPOR, it was encouraging to see the positive year-over-year trends in 4Q, '20 in AL, IL and senior apartments in that 1% to 4% range. In your walk through of the FFO sequentially in the 1Q, '21. You mentioned that $0.06 hit from fundamental decline in senior housing if I'm curious what's the REVPOR assumption within that, does that stay positive year-over-year or does that start to decline? Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah, that's a good question, Steve. So when you think about a sequential basis that $0.06 that moves from 4Q to 1Q effectively, as you think about it like REVPOR and occupancy decline combining we get to your revenue change sequentially. Our REVPOR Rep is down 20 basis points. But that's driven by 2 things. 40% of our senior housing revenue in the fourth quarter is actually from operators that receive rent on a daily basis which is pretty common in the higher acuity side of senior living.

And so just moving from the fourth quarter to the first quarter you lose two days, you got 90 days. So with REVPOR being an approximation of monthly rent, new rent when you go down 2.2% just from that. So there is a headwind from that on a sequential REVPOR basis and then you've got this continued mix shift where the occupancy is the mix shift, the makeup of revenue in the fourth quarter versus first quarter again you're seeing a higher occupancy fall off in the higher acuity segments of our portfolio which pay higher rent.

So in the combination of those two things, the REVPOR from how that impacts kind of total revenues down 20 basis points. But if you look at on a per day per unit rent were up 2.1% in the fourth quarter relative to the first quarter and it's actually pretty strong sequential growth and it's driven mainly by roughly half of our operators also have Gen 1 increasers. So there is increase push through Gen 1 and that's helped kind of rent growth.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Lukas Hartwich from Green Street. Please go ahead.

Q - Lukas Hartwich{BIO 18457621 <GO>}
Shankh, in the past you've talked about Welltower's and difference between the SHNNN and SHOP formats it's structured correctly. I'm curious of the teams evaluating that question for the existing portfolio, as well as acquisitions in this environment, because clearly, there's a lot more uncertainty in the near term fundamentals but the recovery, the trajectory potential long-term impacts in the senior housing business. So, a lot of moving pieces relative to the history there?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Well, I think you just coined a new term. I'm assuming you're asking about the difference between senior housing triple-net versus senior housing operating. So look, given where the cycle is, I want to be majority being the equity position or in the RIDEA side. But there are opportunities to deploy capital in the senior housing in a triple-net side, if you have assets that have stabilized and you can buy it cheap enough that the last dollar of the lease is still in place where the operators can make money and we can make money. There obviously, you can create a lot of bells and whistles and where the operators have a second bite at the apple. So there is ways to you can create that alignment but remember if it simplistically think about, our idea is an equity exposure and lease, is more of a credit exposure you can create value if A from our side if the buildings are stabilized or near stabilization and you buy it cheap enough that you last dollar is still a pretty low rent relative to what the cash flow of the buildings look like, then you can create value.

But that's how we think about it, that's how our operator thinks about it. And so we have found two opportunities to do leases. If we do find more opportunities, we'll do it, but I can tell you that the industry is moving away at least we are moving away from very tightly covered leases. Today we're thinking about there should be even more margin of safety and when we find opportunities we're buying to achieve that we can that's one way going forward.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Dennerlein from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
Hey, good morning guys. Shankh I just wanted to follow up on your comment in your opening remarks about hiring in some of the key added, I think you said 41 employees last year. Curious just what areas of the business are you guys hiring that you added to?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Pretty much across the board. I mean if you think about it, we have added a lot of people on our investment teams and we have hired a lot of people on that data analytics team. We had at a lot of hiring people on our infrastructure teams, there are accounting tax. I can't, I don't have the background. I can tell you that we have seen an incredible resurgence of interest in our asset, in our company today from both sort of externally and internally and what I mean externally as an operator developers internally as prospective employees both experience employees that we're hiring, there is a lot of talent in the market for obvious disruption. Also a lot of early carrier employees that we are seeing. I'll just tell you, just one small stat an interesting one doesn't change really anything we do. We hired East Coast, West Coast and Midwest, we hired top seven schools for MBA candidates this year, we've got more than 1,400 applications for really four, five positions we hired.

So that's sort of tells you the interest in our business and the amount of incredible talent, we're seeing both on RIDEA side, as well as the super experience side, and we'll see some really good hires this year as well. This year, I expect that will add 40 to 50 professionals across the board in the company. Acquisition is not just, as I said; I want you to think about Josh acquisition in this kind of market, which is so disruptive in three ways. One obvious one, right we're doing value opportunities that we can add at a discount replacement cost. B) acquisition of partnership and operator relationship and developer relationship, that's B. C) is employees. We're in a business of talent and given the amount of disruption that's in the marketplace that we see and what we think this business will become, as we think about three years, five years, 10 years from now, we're very much adding an incredible level of talent that we have never seen in the marketplace.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
Great. Appreciate it, great colour.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya from Mizuho. Please go ahead.

Q - Omotayo Okusanya{BIO 4954685 <GO>}
Yes, good morning everyone. First of all Shankh and Tim I just wanted to give your entire team credit for such strong transparent disclosure on your business update. I wish more of your peers were doing that. And also our regards to Tom, I hope he is doing well. My first question really is around government support. Could you just talk a little bit about kind of post the Phase 3 announcement, kind of what you're seeing in the pipeline at this point or what the lobby group is seeing? And what the potential is for further government release for your operators?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, let me take that. Let me take your question and see whether I can get that. I'm not going to comment on sort of what might happen, there is too much uncertainty, we have a new administration; if I sit here and try to comment on what might happen, I'll be so much outside my zone of confidence, which I think you know that I've focused very much on tackle of confidence. Being a lifelong Buffett and longer, sort of -- I'm not going to venture that. But I will tell you that Tom is doing well, I talk to him pretty frequently, he's been an incredible mentor and a friend, he continues to help me think through a lot of issues, and he is definitely doing well. If you reach out to him he will reply to you, but he is definitely doing well and he remains a great support of the company, and he is helping in anyway he can.

Operator
Thank you. I see our next question comes from the line of Daniel Bernstein from Capital One. Please go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bernstein{BIO 17544174 <GO>}
Hey, good morning. I appreciate you staying on and taking the closer [ph]. It seems to me that the initial acquisitions you've done here, I mean, clearly just destruction you're buying a below replacement cost, but they're not really truly distress sale. So I'm just trying to understand what you're seeing in the marketplace in terms of lenders/bankers kind of exercising covenants enforcing more distressed sales, the remainder of this year, especially given your comments on a strong pipeline? And I know if you could talk difference between that distress and seniors housing and skilled nursing? Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Like beauty, distress is also something that lies in the eyes of the beholder. I can tell you then, we're -- we are buying assets in core markets of New Jersey, Seattle, California for less than $200,000 a unit where replacement cost is $400,000, $500,000 -- above $500,000 a unit. If you don't think that's a devalued opportunity, I really don't know how to answer to that. So, I guess we just have to obviously think about it different way. We are -- if you just always remember price relative to what it takes to build that gap is what creates distress; if you just want to look at purely on a price per pound and does it look cheap, just wait for few -- as I said, 60 to 90 days, I can tell you more about some of those opportunities that we are seeing. But I think we're executing on some very significant sort of discount to replacement cost opportunities, some we have reported, and if you look at what those assets are and dig into what it takes to build, you will understand that.

So going back to the bank; look, I have no idea when the banks will obviously push more towards sort of pushing this sort of -- this whole pipeline of new construction that happened between 2015 and 2019 from their books. But I can tell you that we have been working diligently with many of our banking partners. We -- just yesterday we executed on one such loan. Look we're here open for business, we have a sense of what the value is, we have a sense of how we can create value, not just at the buy, but also with our operating partners and we're executing. But I can't sit here and tell you when the banks will keep the books, there is just no way to say that.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Thanks again for sticking on. Just to go back to sort of the potential inflection, I know you can't give a near-term prognosis on when that's going to happen, but just in terms of early indicators, both on move-ins and move-outs, Tim, I found you have commented 55% needed for stabilization, interesting. I'm just wondering in the different geographies given the COVID cases have trended somewhat differently and that has a correlation to the move-insurance, any early signs you're seeing are monitoring that would suggest move-in and move-out kind of can turn the other way?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, there is not. I think as far as early indicators, we haven't seen enough to note it as a trend, I'd say. You certainly have seen operators where you've seen deposits or tours or initial increase move up, you've also seen -- as your question goes, you've seen them move down in geographies in which you've had essentially -- the last six to eight weeks has been shut-off in a lot of ways. So, not enough of a trend on the initial indicators are first movers to say that there is something there. I do think part of what I was getting at earlier is, what we've seen in the past you follow; some of the first indicators being inquiries and quest for tours etcetera. You've seen that kind of lag cases in that kind of 30 or 45-day range. So what we've seen in cases, the fact that they are still very high may make this time a bit different as far as how much time it takes posted, but you're thinking about a mid-January kind of peak in cases, you would likely -- if things continue on this trend, the positive trend we're seeing, I think you start to see towards the middle to the end of the month maybe some of those first indicators move in a more portfolio-wide basis. And so we can provide some more question -- some more color on that as we update the market over the next month or two but right now it's a little too early to speak to it.

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya from Mizuho. Please go ahead.

Q - Omotayo Okusanya{BIO 4954685 <GO>}
Hi, guys. Good morning. Thanks for continuing to go on. My question actually ties into what Vikram was just discussing; if the infection rate trends have been getting better over the past few weeks, you guys kind of talked about a 45-day lag. I guess, it does seem to indicate to me that things should get better in the back half of the quarter but yet you have 260 basis points of average occupancy, big decline baked into today but the guidance range for 1Q is 2.75 to 3.75 [ph]. So the guidance of viewing things actually get worse in the back half of the quarter versus better. So just hoping to clarify that?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
I appreciate questions. Just to clarify that a bit, we're seeing if the trends were to continue and I think you're saying the same; you would start to see some improvement in the latter part of the quarter but trends getting better from here or staying the same is the part that we're not taking a position on. And so, certainly if that continues that way, that's when we start to see some improvement. Our guidance doesn't take a position on COVID in the path of it, it's -- even today, despite where we've come off, case counts in every way, shape or form are higher than any point we've given the forward look in the past nine months. So, today there is still a lot of uncertainty, it certainly feels better than it did three or four weeks ago. But what's baked into guidance in our view is not an attempt to call for a better or a continued improvement in it's more of a current state holding.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okusanya, as Tim pointed out before, majority of that decline on an average basis is already baked in, right. So, if you see the improvement that you are hoping for, which we are not hoping for, we're not guiding for; then that will more impact the second quarter than the first quarter.