Q2 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
John F. Burkart, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Matt McQueen, Senior Vice President of General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Shankh S. Mitra, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer, and Director
Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Austin Wurschmidt, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Daniel Bernstein, Analyst, Capital One
David Rodgers, Analyst, Baird
Derek Johnston, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
John Pawlowski, Analyst, Green Street
Jonathan Hughes, Analyst, Raymond James
Juan Sanabria, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Michael Bilerman, Analyst, Citi
Michael Carroll, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Michael Griffin, Analyst, Citi
Michael Muller, Analyst, JP Morgan
Nicholas Yulico, Analyst, Scotiabank
Rich Anderson, Analyst, SMBC
Steven Valiquette, Analyst, Barclays
Vikram Malhotra, Analyst, Mizuho
Presentation
Operator
Good morning. My name is Shantra [ph] and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Welltower Second Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.

Matt McQueen, General Counsel, you may begin.

Matt McQueen{BIO 18276475 <GO>}
Thank you and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks.

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Matt, and good morning everyone. I'll review high-level business trends and describe our capital allocation priorities before handing the call over to John for detailed operational trends and provide more details on the operating platform that he is building. Our total revenue is up 29% year-over-year, driven by both organic revenue growth and contribution from significant capital deployment activity over last 18 months. On a same-store basis, our Senior Housing Operating portfolio revenue is up 11.5% year-over-year, driven by a 5% occupancy growth and 4.5% RevPAR growth. All these translated into a 15.4% same-store NOI growth in Q2. Our annual EBITDA is back above $2 billion annualized in-place SHOP NOI is at $895 million although shy of $923 million of pre-pandemic numbers, our revenue has surpassed pre-pandemic levels.

However, I'm not happy with these results, which I would characterize mediocre at best. Why? Because the size of our portfolio is much bigger today given the significant amount of capital deployment over the last 18 months and yet our quarterly results are not reflecting the cash flow that this portfolio is capable of generating. I'll give you a few things to reflect on. First, we have about 120 senior housing properties that are generating negative cash flow today. In other words, if we just shutdown these buildings, our earnings would be significantly higher. Clearly, we would not do such a thing as they were recently developed or going through a value and repositioning program, hence the timing mismatch. Second while I don't like to fix it on short-term trends and instead focus on long-term prospects of the business, I'll offer a few observations on the second quarter. We started the quarter with results coming in better than expected only to get held simultaneously by multiple challenges primarily related to another COVID spike during the last couple of weeks of June. Only this time, we didn't see it coming as the testing requirements have been lowered in recent months, particularly for those residents who are not experiencing symptoms. In instances where few residents or team members develop symptoms, then an entire billing would be tested only to find out many asymptomatic residents and staff actually who are COVID positive. This created some disruption to move-ins, but particularly impactful to the use of agency labor in June. Our operators are working through as we speak and made very good progress in July.

Let me dig into some recent trends even a bit more. From a demand standpoint, we always see first half of July as two last weeks, similar to the last two weeks of December as families celebrate 4th of July weekend and don't usually move parents and grandparents in. This July we lost an additional week and as a result, almost the whole month was shut from a move in perspective before we gain significant traction later in the month with tour activity returning to the levels experienced in June. We and our operators have few theories of why that might be the case. One, the hyper-positivity rate of COVID over 20%, despite people on a reporting to government, families know from home testing they are COVID positive and are delaying move-ins as the wait for this wave to subside. And number two, travel, summer travel has surged as families took advantage of looser COVID restrictions, again I would describe this as our conjecture because we don't know for sure, but we are clearly seeing broad-based demand recovery continues, particularly towards the second half of the month in terms of lease and tours which led to a recent rebound in move-ins across the portfolio over last couple of weeks. On the cost side, it is important that you understand the progress we made on agency labor. In the US, most of our operators are decreased from June to July, resulting largely from favorable net hiring trends. Though July books are not closed yet, we're expecting a decline in agency labor expense in high single-digit from month of June. In terms of net hiring, our operators have continued to make significant momentum with July increase alone in headcount nearly equal to the net hired of past six months of the year combined. As a result, we're already starting to see benefit of this trend, which should reduce the dependence on agency labor in the second half of the year. The downside of high frequency data is that you get a lot of noise and I strongly believe that's what you're seeing in the numbers today, a lot of noise. I encourage my team and will encourage you not to confuse any short-term high frequency noise, whether good or bad as a signal and project that into the future prospect of the business.

For a few quarters, I have been talking about the run rate earnings or the true earnings power of this portfolio being significantly different from our currently reported earnings. Clearly some of the anticipated second half growth has slipped into the next year, but it should only be a timing mismatch as we focus on '23 and '24, I continue to believe that this earnings power will shine through. Before I move on to the capital allocation priorities, let me make a comment on ProMedica. When we bought HCR ManorCare portfolio out of bankruptcy, we did not outsource our underwriting to rating agencies. Clearly, there was no way for us to predict a global pandemic or a day when almost every hospital system in the country would lose money similar to what happened in Q1 of this year because of COVID. We got comfortable because our basis of $57,000 per skilled nursing bed, we saw very minimal risk of permanent capital loss, which is at the core of how we think about risk. Of all the structuring (inaudible), which we're very proud of, we fundamentally believe investment basis not cash flow in a given building at a given point in time determines investment success. Having said that, the ProMedica team has been able to meet reduced agency labor almost by half over last 12 months and significantly narrowed their operating losses. We have below-market basis, and thus below market rents here. I remain very comfortable with the rent and long lifetime expected IRR from this investment that we discussed with you when we did this deal four years ago.

Turning to the capital deployment, I cannot overstate how favorable of an environment we find ourselves in today. During the second quarter, our off-market privately negotiated transaction machine kept humming, having deployed an additional $1.1 billion of capital. Today, there is definite stress in the lending environment, given the significant rate and credit volatility and increasing recession talk. Cap rates are going up across the board and most institutional capital is waiting to see where the chips fall. We're seeing many high-quality opportunities and we think the environment will only get more favorable as Fed continues to raise rate at a rapid clip. Our pipeline remains robust having replenished after all of our Q2 and Q3 closings, our fundamental investment thesis remains intact. One, we need to buy at a favorable basis relative to replacement cost, and two, we need to be able to add value through our platform. We're not spread investing deal junkies and instead remain laser focused on total return or unlevered IRR. I continue to believe this year will be a record year for Welltower from a capital deployment standpoint. Cost of capital has surged for everybody, including government and access to capital remains very sparse for most people. In this environment, we remain in a very favorable capital position with $2-plus billion of equity capital that is raised but not settled, and almost full availability of our $4 billion line. Sellers who did not like our price six months ago are realizing that glossy broker packets and non-binding LOI are not cash in the bank. This environment reinforces the value of the counterparty like Welltower which always acts on a very simple principle, we say what we do and we do what we say, and in that vein, as our long-term investors have come to expect from us, we exercise utmost discipline on every transaction we look at, large or small, and will not chase any deal. As we have said in the recent past, price is the price and we only act in a manner that creates long-term value for our share for our owners.

With respect to capital deployment over last 18 months, some of you have asked me if I am satisfied with the performance of these properties, in the cases of many of these acquisitions including some larger ones, the answer is no. The same-store challenge that I have described are accentuated in many non-same-store properties, which are being repositioned through operator changes. However, I do believe that we have turned the corner as we approach the completion of operator transition and system integration for the COVID class of acquisitions. We should see significant progress from these properties as we enter next year. Please recall we make investment decisions based on long-term IRR with an exit cap rate going up every single year from the duration of the ownership and we feel strongly about achieving those return targets as we have discussed with you. As frustrating as near-term challenges of operator transition might be for reported earnings and trust me, I shared those frustrations with you. We have to do what's right for long-term interest of our owners. I will give you two examples, Vintage and Gracewell, two of the most ill-fated HCN acquisition for many months ago, despite some of the most coveted location and CapEx plans, these assets did not live up to our expectations. We finally pulled the plug over last 12 months, frankly, because we're not permitted to do so earlier. Our, Gracewell assets were transfered to Care UK and the Vintage assets were mostly transfer to Oakmont with one each to Kisco and Cogir. Oakmont has already made incredible progress with the first tranche of the asset they received last fall with occupancy up 13% and I believe you will see this repeated in the most recent tranche as well. Care UK is having similar success with Gracewell assets taking occupancy above 80% and I believe they will be stabilized or get close to it in 2023. We made similar decision for our other properties which come with some short-term pain, but as we capital allocators strive every day to create part share value by compounding over a long period of time. While we hope near-term priorities do not conflict with those long-term, practically speaking we often encounter situations where those time horizons diverge and it is critical for our investors to understand that at these crossroads, we will always follow that path to long-term value creation at the expense of short-term gains. The good news is that all of these as my partner, John Burkart, would say is baked in the cake.

With that, I'll hand the call over to John who will describe to do you perhaps the most exciting set of initiatives that will transform the business as we know today and create tremendous value for our residents, team members, operating partners and most importantly, our shareholders. John?

John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will touch upon the performance of our operating business and provide additional color regarding our vision for Senior Housing as well as an update on our platform initiatives.

Starting with our medical office portfolio, in the second quarter our outpatient medical business sequentially increased occupancy by 30 basis points and delivered 2.5% same-store NOI growth over the prior year's quarter. We continue to see strong retention rates over 89% in the quarter, good demand and rising new lease rates.

Now turning to our Senior Housing Operating platform portfolio, the recovery in this sector continues. As Shankh mentioned, revenue in our same-store portfolio accelerated to 11.5% in the second quarter compared to the prior year's quarter. All three regions showed good revenue growth led by the US and UK with growth of 13.1% and 14.7% respectively. The revenue for the quarter was driven by 500 basis point increase in occupancy and another quarter of healthy rate growth. Sequentially, the portfolio increased occupancy 100 basis points during a period in which sequentially average occupancy has historically been slightly negative. While expenses grew at a rate of 10.5%, our operators continue to control EXPOR or Expense Per Occupied Room, which only grew at a rate of 3.5% in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis. And as Shankh indicated, we are encouraged by recent trends in terms of agency hiring and new hiring, which we believe should drive a deceleration in the second half expense growth. Despite short-term challenges driven by COVID with tight labor market and inflationary pressures, the portfolio delivered 15.4% year-over-year same-store NOI growth in the period. The second highest in the company's history with the US portfolio generating over 20% same-store NOI growth. Going forward, we expect the portfolio to look to deliver outside NOI growth over multi-year period with strengthening supply demand backdrop compounded by our efforts to optimize the business, which I'll get to shortly.

Regarding the overall market, the traffic this summer has been influenced by COVID in various ways. For example, the traffic was very good in June and then fell significantly as expected for the 4th of July weekend to continue to remain low until it accelerated in the last couple of weeks of July and that total July traffic was about equal to total June traffic. We expect the increased traffic in the later part of July to lead to increased move-ins in August. The average occupancy for the portfolio in July was up over 40 basis points in the same-store portfolio. I also want to quickly comment on recent management transitions within the show portfolio. As we make adjustments to our operators portfolios and the related assets are in transition, we appropriately remove them from the same-store portfolio as they tend to underperform early in the transition and subsequently outperform later in the transition, which can create noise in the same-store portfolio performance. This is very similar to removing an asset for full renovation. Transitions take substantial amount of time from the point of notice to the actual transition of management, which negatively impacts staffing, sales leads, and other operational aspects of the asset. The challenges the new operator faces upon takeover are significant. However, over time they get resolved and of course the assets performance improves over the pre-transition baseline, which is the purpose of the transition to begin with. The fact that we have 59 assets in transition is meaningful and that management is willing to take short-term earnings pain for improved performance in the future. If we had not removed transition assets from the same-store portfolio, our year-over-year NOI growth for the quarter would have been 14.9%. Bottom line strategic transitions are undoubtedly worth it and they can drive significant value despite creating near-term noise for the same-store portfolio.

Shifting to an update on the operating platform, previously, I mentioned the opportunity to fundamentally change the growth potential of this business by creating a full-scale operating platform and bringing operational excellence to our Senior Housing portfolio. In terms of industry lifecycle, I would place the Senior Housing business in the infancy phase, but rapidly transitioning into the growth phase. This is very similar to the multifamily business years ago, whose transformation I witnessed firsthand. Businesses that are in infancy phase of the industry lifecycle focus on effectiveness which is essential. Without it the business would not be able to exist long term and as an industry transitions from the infancy phase to the growth phase, continuing to remain effective as the core objective is essential; however, the winners focus on operational excellence, including efficiency. The analogy that I've used is the diner business of the 1950s, to survive and thrive you had to serve a good meal; a good burger, fries and shake in the case of McDonald Brothers. However, to grow as the industry moved from its infancy the growth phase, a focus on operational excellence was imperative including an obsessive focus on efficiency, which is what Ray Kroc did when he franchised McDonald's.

The senior housing operators face many small business challenges, including the inability to recruit and re-train and retain top talent in key functions from technology and data analytics to process and facilities management due to their size and inability to compete for a compensation perspective. Additionally, the fee-based structure limits the economic incentive to fully invest in optimizing the business as an owner operator would. For example, if a fee manager is paid 5% of revenues, the most they would logically spend to collect $1 of revenue is $0.05, whereas owner operators would theoretically invest $0.99 to collect the dollar. As you all know, we have worked to change this unfavorable incentive structure through our aligned RIDEA 3.0 contracts and we are now working on our next-generation of contracts that will provide Welltower with a greater ability to help address senior housing operators' small business challenges. These challenges are across the board including basic functions to illustrate in a relatively simple area such as billing, in the two reviews we perform, we identified that care revenue was under billed by 25% or more, meaning that the necessary quality care was provided to the resident. However, they were under-billed. Other challenges are much greater including keeping up with modern consumer expectations such as building-wide high speed Internet connectivity, identifying and integrating quality technology systems, and creating and delivering real-time insightful and actionable reporting to improve operational results.

Focusing on operational excellence is more than a digital transformation. It's about people, processes, data and technology, recognizing that everything starts with people, our residents living at our communities, the employees serving those residents and the operators leading the effort. We start by focusing on the customer experience and employee experience and optimizing the various processes. Then, we evaluate the data that we may leverage to draw meaningful insight into the business in a way that improves the experience of the various stakeholders. Finally, we implement cutting-edge technology to simplify and automate the processes as we will provide real time actionable insightful information, improving the customer and employee experience while optimizing results. This isn't simply about buying the latest software; it's about fundamentally transforming the business. Over the years many businesses have transformed from buying books to used cars, to buying homes and finding vacation rentals. Digital transformations have fundamentally changed these businesses and improved the overall experience. One of the key imperatives of operational excellence is a recognition that data is the asset. There is no entity in this space better positioned to leverage data than Welltower as we are effectively building the operating platform to improve the overall experience on what we call Alpha, our data analytics platform that has been developed over the last six years. Welltower will improve the customer and employee experience and create shareholder value through leading transformation of the business.

I've gone from full immersion and observation to planning and now action mode. I will not give away all the details in my future playbook, but I will say the following. We are moving very fast. Several recent highlights include forming an internal multi-disciplinary team of experts focused on improving the Senior Housing operations in Q2, hiring a Chief Technology Officer in Q2 to lead the technology aspect of the operating platform, completing the implementation of Welltower's ERP last week, which is central to this effort and frankly, I want to thank the Welltower team that executed this massive project with great speed and excellent execution, initiating a data analytics pilot on the current information that we have available with an expected rollout over the next six months, this step alone will enable us to start driving value, finally, creating the sales force automation plan with expectations to launch a pilot in early 2023. We have numerous other modules in the works and we'll update as appropriate. Although this is a huge effort, Welltower is uniquely positioned to execute it faster than historically possible. Our strategy is to leverage existing quality modules and only create new modules where they don't exist or where they give us a strategic advantage such as our revenue management module, which we're developing. Another unique benefit that Welltower has relates to the number of top quality operators in our portfolio. We are separating the pilots of the modules into parallel initiatives, each with a different operator which will minimize the potential delay that can be caused by a lack of employee bandwidth or overall cookies [ph] and have slowed down other transformations. Ultimately as we perfect each module, we will then rapidly roll it out to the broader group. This business transformation will continue to deepen and widen the moat Welltower has built while improving the overall experience of all stakeholders.

I'll now turn the call over to Tim.

Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our second quarter 2022 results. Performance of our triple-net investment segments quarter; our capital activity, our balance sheet liquidity update and finally, our outlook for the third quarter. Welltower reported second-quarter net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.20 per diluted share, and normalized funds from operations of $0.86 per diluted share, which included $17 million of Provider Relief Funds from the Department of Health and Human Services, approximately $11 million or $0.02 per share, more than was assumed in our initial guide for the quarter. This quarter represented our second consecutive quarter of the year-over-year normalized FFO growth since the start of the pandemic at positive 8.9% or 7.7% when normalized for HHS funds received and year-over-year changes in FX rates. We also reported our second consecutive quarter of positive total portfolio same-store NOI growth of 8.7% year-over-year growth.

Turning to our triple-net lease portfolios, as a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats reported a quarter in arrears. These statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending March 31, 2022. In our Senior Housing, triple-net portfolio same-store NOI increased 9.9% year-over-year, driven by improvements in rent collections on leases currently in cash recognition and the early impact of rental increases tied to CPI. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage increased 0.1 times to 0.83 times in the quarter. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio grew same store NOI by positive 2.8% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage of 1.31 times. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with the ProMedica Health System with a same-store NOI growth of positive 2.7% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was negative 0.29 times as operations continued to be impacted by high agency utilization in the first quarter.

Turning to capital market activity, we continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to capitalize on our robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to efficiently fund those near-term transactions. At the start of the second quarter, we sold 18 million shares via forward sale agreement at initial weighted average price of approximately $87.67 per share for expected gross proceeds of $1.6 billion. We currently have approximately 22.5 million shares remaining unsettled which are expected to generate future proceeds of $2.0 billion. Taken together, our unsettled equity proceeds inclusive of committed OP units and pipeline deals and $257 million of expected property dispositions and loan payoff proceeds, totaled $2.3 billion in equity capital providing ample capacity to fund our current investment pipeline. During the quarter, we closed unamended $4 billion unsecured revolving line of credit, along with an upsized term facility comprised of a $1 billion term loan and a CAD250 million term loan. At quarter end, when factoring cash and restricted cash balances, our liquidity position exceeded the $4 billion of borrowing capacity on our line of credit. When combined with the previous mentioned $2.3 billion of unsettled equity proceeds and expected disposition proceeds, we remain in a very strong liquidity position.

Lastly, moving to our third quarter outlook, last night, we provided an outlook for the third quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.12 to $0.17 and normalized FFO per share of $0.82 to $0.87 or $0.845 at the midpoint. This guidance includes $7 million of HHS funds expected to be received in the third quarter. Excluding HHS funds, guidance represented a $0.005 increase at the midpoint from 2Q normalized FFO.

This $0.005 increase composed of $0.025 from incremental show NOI growth and show investment activity and $0.01 from performance across the rest of our investment segments and from lower sequential G&A costs. This is offset by $0.03 of higher floating rate interest costs and unfavorable FX rate. Underlying this FFO guidance is estimated third quarter total portfolio year-over-year same-store NOI growth of 7% to 9%, driven by subsegment growth of outpatient medical 1.75% to 2.75%, long-term post-acute of 2.5% to 3.5%, health systems of 2.75%, senior housing triple-net of 5% to 6%, and finally, senior housing operating growth of 15% to 20%, driven by year-over-year revenue growth of 10%. Underlying this revenue growth is an expectation for approximately 400 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy growth and continued robust rate growth. We continue to be pleased with the momentum of the top-line recovery in our senior housing operating portfolio, driven by a combination of rate and occupancy growth. As I remarked last quarter as we have realized recovery in our core portfolio, we have made the conscious decision to steadily allocate capital to distressed, under operated and often initially diluted properties along with high quality development projects. While the capital allocation has the effect of offsetting some of our core growth today, it just substantially amplifies in years to come.

And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shankh.

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Jim. If I may distract you all from the short-term noise and focus on the main drivers of long-term earnings and cash flow per share growth, there are really four large buckets that we must pay attention to; occupancy, rates, labor cost, and external growth. In 2021, whenever we are hit by a massive COVID wave, it felt as though we are taking one step forward and two-step back in terms of occupancy, rates, and labor costs. Thankfully, the health impact of COVID has been getting more mild and the psyche of the population has significantly improved. Now we are taking two steps forward and one step back in terms of occupancy and labor cost and it appears from the July trends that we're making that one extra step back forward very quickly. So, COVID impacts are getting less pronounced and rebounds are getting quicker as we learn how to live with COVID. Despite the reported issues of agency labor, the team member count in our communities has grown significantly off late, and though we have not seen any let up in the cost of labor, there is no question that we have seen the availability of labor increase meaningfully off late. The portfolio has almost the same net hiring in July as we had in the first six months of the year combined, though our operators have had success in net hiring numbers over last few months, as you can see from the case studies on Slide 7 and Slide 8, it appears that the labor market is finally on the mend from the significant success of hiring trends in July. Assuming these trends continue, this bodes very well for agency labor cost as we get second half of the year and where we continue to make the largest stride is through pricing power. The recent COVID spikes have not in any way dulled our operators' ability to push through strong rates. What is particularly encouraging is the street rates, which are up from high-single digit, all the way up to 15%, 20% in case of some large operators.

Given the sharp acceleration in growth of the senior population and plummeting new supply of few projects penciling for developers today, our confidence in driving occupancy and rate growth for next few years continue to strengthen. As for external growth opportunities are prospects, which have been very good are only getting better, the willingness of owners to transact has grown over last two years as they struggled with COVID related challenges and debt maturity, and now with recent surge in borrowing cost and tighter lending standards that are keeping many buyers at bay. If we overlay all this with how John is fundamentally transforming our business, I have not been more excited of the future prospect of our firm. We know we need to translate all of this into significant higher earnings run rate and cash flow per share and our team which thinks and acts like long-term owners they are hyper-focused on that mission.

With that, we'll open the call up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Michael Griffin with Citi. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Bilerman{BIO 15926660 <GO>}
Hi, it's Michael Bilerman here with Griff. Shankh, I was wondering if you can just step back and look, I appreciate the comment about the downside of using high frequency data and the noise and effectively not to confuse the short-term whether it's good or bad to protect on the future and you guys have been very -- all over COVID providing us a lot of business updates and I think back in June that -- you used that data to lift guidance, right, and you issued the business update. So I'm trying to understand whether you're thinking about a change in how you communicate to the street and the REIT [ph] that you're feeling right, because you took that data and you have lifted the street and you raised a bunch of equity and now things are a little bit lower. And I'm wondering if you think about that short-term whether it makes sense to really start putting out the building blocks for all these things that you've done, I mean, 20% of the portfolio has been bought since late 2020, and start to cancel that out on a three to five year basis and go through all the building blocks of all the deals you've done, the 120 assets that are negative cash flow and all these things to try to model out where that future growth really is because of all of these --what you call them noise today?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Yes, Mike, I'll start with that and then Shankh can come in. I think the -- the point on NAREIT in the guidance change there, I think, Shankh spoke of this in his script, but we tightened guidance at NAREIT based upon the trends that we saw and those trends reversed towards the end of the quarter and we ended up towards the lower end of that range. So, I hear you on the high frequency of data and frankly what we've been trying to do is give updates, because the longer-term view has been tougher to project and given COVID as a backdrop, right, and we've been trying to balance essentially since we've been able to provide less of that long-term view, provide more of that short term information and I won't speak for Shankh, he can comment on this, but part of the commentary on the short-term noise is just trying to see the long-term trends continue to be strong in the recovery side. And we're certainly focused on that and we continue to evaluate that piece of it. And although we understand the markets' need for frequent updates on data, we're trying to make sure that you see how we're looking at it and keeping our long-term focus on kind of the core fundamentals of the business.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yes, I'll just add one thing, Michael as I mentioned, if you look at when we got hit by BA.5, the second half, it was about a week after NAREIT and that impact would just sort of follow through about the middle of July and you probably have noticed that we provided another business update a few weeks ago just to make sure that everybody knows that our view has changed, because of things that we've talked about in NAREIT. So, there was another business update, not just the one that you mentioned. So, we have -- we provide information as investors know, they see what we see. But fundamentally as I mentioned in my last quarter call that all our -- we tell you how we think, but if we get hit by a COVID wave, all bets are off. I mentioned that in the last call, I mentioned that in five calls before that and that continues. The good news here is with every passing wave, we're seeing the impact is lessening, and we are seeing the rebounds are getting faster, but the fact of the matter is we just went through one and we're -- rather we're sort of coming towards the tail end of one and we have no way to project how and when we're going to see COVID in our communities. That's just not what we can do and I'm not aware of anybody else can do. We're just telling you as we are seeing things, but we are hoping at least we're trying to help you understand the fundamentals of the business, right. For example, if you can see, there is a tremendous amount of obviously noise on the agency labor, if you look at, that was obviously reported quarter of June. We see a pretty meaningful improvement in July. But if we truly see the improvement that we are excited about, it is the net hiring number, because July net hiring number doesn't impact July agency numbers, right. It's sort of -- there is a lag between when you hire people versus when they impact to the numbers, because you have got to train them and there is a lag between when you hire them, and when they hit the floors, et cetera, right. So, we're just telling you what we are seeing and it's important that we communicate if trends change because of COVID and otherwise. But we -- I hope that you appreciate that we remain transparent and we report things to you as we see things. And if things change, things change.

Operator
Our next question comes from Vikram Malhotra with Mizuho. Your line is open.

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Thanks for taking the question. So, maybe Shankh and John and his team as well, I just wanted to kind of take the pricing power comment you echoed and just think about leaving cost aside, as you mentioned COVID comes and goes, it's tough to predict. Would it be unfair, unreasonable to say given what you're seeing on the bumps, the re-leasing spreads as we head into '23 given demand-supply, pricing power should only accelerate and I should not be surprised if we see, you know, call it a mid to high single-digit RevPAR growth for a couple of quarters? And lastly, can you just translate that pricing power into your latest thoughts on margins in the senior housing space?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay, Vikram, I'm not going to get into -- sort of giving a guidance on pricing power, in particularly for next year's pricing power, but I will tell you that we are seeing that street rates are significantly accelerating, there has been talks, not talks, I mean, I was in UK for few weeks. Our UK operators are talking about giving a mid-year pricing increases in September-October timeframe. I have not seen that before. There are some talks of US operators are thinking about something of that nature. But most importantly street rates are just going up very significantly. So, all this should translate into continued pricing power in our portfolio, especially if you look at next year demand-supply is even more favorable, right. But we're trying to optimize the revenue growth and frankly. So, from our standpoint, we think that pricing power should continue as you can appreciate that we had pricing power last year, right. So, we obviously had RevPAR growth, we had continued to push that and we'll, as we move forward, you will see that we continue to push that pricing power. As I've suggested before, there are two types of pricing power that you should see, frankly speaking, the one you're seeing today is that arises from the need of pushing pricing because of cost inflation and that sort of way, sort of going through that. But as we stabilize different buildings, you will see another set of pricing power, which is we're raising prices because we don't have a lot of rooms to sell, right. So, hopefully, you see a lot of that going through next year.

Operator
Our next question comes from Daniel Bernstein with Capital One. Your line is open.

Q - Daniel Bernstein{BIO 17544174 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. I just wanted to ask something quickly about the differences in labor cost growth between AL, mem care and IL wellness and how that's factoring kind of into your capital allocation of what you want to buy and invest in?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yes. And so on the wellness side, there is not a lot of cost, right, on the people side, so you don't have that though I will say that sort of cost, mostly driven by taxes as well as the energy costs increase. Our capital allocation is not driven by what we think of labor. You can just price that in. it is driven by what is the opportunity set with the price relative to where the replacement cost is. So that's how we think about it and if we have to think, let's just say that you come with this idea that labor cost is going to be high forever, which I don't think it's going to be the case. Labor cost has been a problem for this industry for a very long period of time. And as I said, we finally probably see that it is on the mat [ph], right. We'll see whether that, how that plays out, but we'll likely probably see the first sort of shot across that bump. But you can absolutely price that in where price driven investors not necessarily. So, we take some thematic ideas and just run with it because we can price that in, hopefully that's helpful Dan.

Operator
Our next question comes from Jonathan Hughes with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Q - Jonathan Hughes{BIO 19065362 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Could you just talk about the recurring CapEx spend trajectory. I see it is expected to kind of more than double through September from last year's pace, is that higher spend due to some deferred or lower spending in the past few years during lockdowns and we are just catching up or much higher construction costs, a bit of both? And then kind of an extension of that, how that CapEx spend should trend in the next year and help fuel increased competitiveness of your properties and ultimately revenue growth potential? Thanks.

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Yes, I'll start with that and then John can add anything. Part of it is, we have been certainly in 2010 [ph], 2022 playing a bit of catch up, which continues to cause the senior housing space, which is the building being less accessible over 2020 and 2021 and then efficient for us, a lot of the acquisitions we've made have had substantial value-add opportunities and so we've highlighted that on the larger ones and explicitly stated how much kind of redevelopment capital or value add capital we put into it, but I think that's what's driving that right now, is a combination of a little bit of deferred or catch up capital from the period of time in which the buildings where for safety reasons less accessible, and on top of that, we put a lot of capital to work into opportunities that have high return value add investment.

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yes, and I'll just add, you're actually pulling something from -- in a certain sense from a future script because I talked about the operating platform. The next initiative that I'm focusing on in a big way are workflow, it really relates to capital and internal investments, what I'd call it as how we reposition the portfolio, our Senior Housing business portfolio age is at the absolute sweet spot, under just, right under 20 years old on average providing tremendous opportunities to reposition those assets. So, I'm actually building out of capital team right now and we will align our CapEx with our value add initiatives and drive pretty substantial value over the coming three to five years. So, it will be a very big effort and we're at the very front of that effort right now.

Operator
Our next question comes from Austin Wurschmidt with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Austin Wurschmidt{BIO 17905696 <GO>}
Hi, great, thank you. I'm just curious for the 120 senior housing facilities currently generating negative cash flow, what is the NOI drag from those facilities? Can you give us what percent of the $538 million of total NOI upside in SHOP that they represent and do you expect them to stabilize at a faster pace than the overall portfolio?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
We're not going to give you a number on how much capital, how much cash flow that's losing today, maybe, I'll talk to Tim and see if we can kind of quantify that for you. Should did grow faster, the answer is, obviously, yes, right. They are losing money because they're at a lower occupancy and as they stabilize over say X number of years, just from the base that is coming out of and if you think about the trajectory of the margin, they should grow faster, but a lot of these properties have been recently built or we bought the properties at a very, very low occupancy, right. So if you look at the last tranche, for example, you know, the StoryPoint acquisitions we did, I think the average occupancy was like 40%, right. So, if you think about it, average age of the portfolio I think that we bought is between two to four years and they are at 40% occupancy. So, there is no question, there is a lot of those buildings that opened in last year, year and half and we bought a lot of these things, right, from developers, from multifamily developers, from banks, they are just a drug. But the point here is they are not a sequential sort of a linear progress to your NOI growth, right, as they go from a negative sort of margin to the margin inflection and that sort of margin grows after you hit the (inaudible), right. So that's sort of the way to think about it. I mentioned that for you to understand that, for some people it is very simple, right, just take an example of 56 [ph] street property, that property opened 7.5 months ago. It's why -- it's probably low 30% occupied today and our average rate of those residents that we have received, of the people who are living there is, $23,000, $24,000, okay. Clearly that has negative margin but you think about it as we thought about that property when we developed it we're getting significantly higher rates and the trajectory of lease up is doing better than we thought. Still, that's a negative value add. So, as you think about negative value, as you think about putting a multiple on our income, understand that you are valuing 120 buildings that are negative value. That's all, right. So, I am not going to add anything more to that at this point but something to reflect on what sort of dragging on our earnings and cash flow today.

Operator
Our next question comes from Derek Johnston with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Hi, everybody. Good morning. On John Burkart's operational initiatives, what is his team hoping to accomplish and really to build confidence these endeavors can bear fruit, how are you guys measuring success and what's the upside here?

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
The measuring success, actually, let's go back to what I hope to accomplish is again really bringing modern processes, technology, et cetera, to the business and I'll give you an example, very specific example. So, one of the things I tested when I came in is I tested how we respond to our customer, customer experience and what I found out after about 200 customer inquiries, was that 50% were returned and of the 50% that were returned, the average time was about 13 business hours. So, if a family member needs help on a Monday, my father calls or something like that and I decide he needs to go into assist living, I might get a call back on a Wednesday, or I might not ever. That's a horrible experience and that is a very solvable situation. If you look at the current CRMs that are in place, they are basically relying upon the sales people inputting data, it is like I write a sticky note, I put it in a file, that's my CRMs. It's glorified because it's electronic, but it's the same thing. So for example, I went to one of our large operators and gave them their results, which were six out of six calls did not get returned, six out of six, zero return and they said, ji [ph], I'm shocked because I'm looking on my desk at our report, our pretty report, PowerPoint report that shows that 85% of the phone calls that comes in, we respond to it an hour. I said that's shocking, but this is all something that we can work ourselves through because you can just test it yourself. I said but first tell me how does that get reported and he said, well, it gets reported because our salespeople reported themselves. Well, there in lies the issue, the tracking systems weren't in place, et-cetera, et-cetera. It's really a bunch of sticky notes from a receptionist that get lost and picked up by the janitor and the calls get lost. So that's the type of professionalism that we're going to apply to the business and the results will be to the financial benefit most obviously, increased occupancy, increased rates and a better overall experience for the consumers. So that hopefully answers the question. As far as the details and timelines, we're obviously not giving that out.

Operator
Our next question comes from John Pawlowski with Green Street. Your line is open.

Q - John Pawlowski{BIO 20091888 <GO>}
Thanks for the time. I appreciate the case study page is showing that you are hiring in recent months. I guess, I still don't have a sense for the magnitude of understaffing assuming occupancy starts climbing, so to the extent we get positive surprises on occupancy upside is next six to 12 months. Are you going to -- are you got to have to lean on agency expensed to kind of meet that demand or do you think properties on average are staffed properly right now to handle additional occupancy?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
(Multiple Speakers) I think, John, that's a very fair comment, which I should --we talked about in July was obviously very positive month for net hiring. And we hired for the portfolio overall, our operating partners have hired as many people in July as they did six months ago. So, but what we haven't told you that hiring puts us finally 2% plus above where the total number of employees where last year. We should have added that. It's a fair question, comment from your end. So, as you can recall this whole agency sort of cost drama started about a year ago and we have finally worked our way through that, with this July hiring, we're finally about 2% above where total employee count was on a net basis above last year. So what you are saying is possible, but I would say probably unlikely as we are finally seeing, as I said, I talked a little bit about that that our operators have been talking about the overall availability of labor is increasing in June. It feels like again, I'm going to be very careful how I describe it, because it is not that we know everything that's happening. But it feels like that finally that labor market is on the mend from -- at least from an availability for sure is on mend and hopefully that translates into price of labor in not a distant future, but at this point at least we're hopeful -- not just hopeful, we're seeing it in the numbers that agency labor, which were obviously pretty ugly number in June, but has calmed down in July and hopefully, obviously the net hiring numbers in July, you will see that should impact pretty positively as we get towards the end of the quarter.

Operator
Our next question comes from Steven Valiquette with Barclays. Your line is open.

Q - Steven Valiquette{BIO 1928887 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning everybody. Yes, I wanted to actually touch on the subject that you just answered, but I guess the -- just frame it slightly differently, not to get redundant here, what percent of total open positions across all the Senior Housing were filled in July? If you think of it that way, we're talking 75%, nearly to 100%, I think that 2% above where we were before, it still kind of hard to -- I guess, frame that perfectly in our own minds? So, and the other thing is just on the double staffing, what's the typical time period of training where you have a double staffing and we're talking weeks or months just any rule of thumb would help around that too as we think of magnitude of potential expense reduction for 3Q versus 4Q et cetera? Thanks.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So net hiring in July was about 3%, just about 3% of total employee count and you should think about to the second half of your question, you should think about weeks not months. So July hired should impact, August and September sort of agency numbers. There is a case study that you can see on Page 7 and 8, Page 8 will show you, this is an interesting case right, Page 7 and 8 has two large operators, which constituted roughly half of our agency labor cost. Page 7 will show you an operator who has already made the strides and the cost has come down meaningfully. Let's just say, call it from a $2 million a month to call it $0.5 million a month, rough numbers, in a matter of four months call it from April to July. The Page 8 shows you an operator, which actually has it. The numbers have been pretty much flat from June to July. But if you look at the number of hours booked, that has come down pretty significantly which tells you if that trend continues, they should see significant improvement in August to September, right. So, we (inaudible) 66:05 two examples; one will give you diversity of example and two consequential example which sort of do constitute pretty much half of the total cost, but hopefully that sort of gives you a sense of what we are seeing, rather than predicting the future, we're sort of giving you the positioning of our portfolio, which probably should hopefully translate that into the future.

Operator
Our next question comes from Mike Mueller with JP Morgan. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Muller{BIO 17745631 <GO>}
Yes, hi, I was wondering, Tim, can you tie together, the 4.5% same-store revenue growth -- RevPAR growth and maybe talk a little bit about the sequential trend there relative to Q1? And can you dissect a little bit and talk about roll downs and just I guess pricing by unit type?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Yes and I will, on the RevPAR side, I think the way to think about it is, we talked about this last quarter, but we get a large amount of -- half our portfolio roughly resets on Jan 1. So, you see that occur then and that happened -- that part of the portfolio actually happens to also be heavily weighted towards our higher acuity unit types. The Jan 1 increase your spend to be in the daily billers, the daily billers are the part of the business that have higher acuity assisted living waiting, so, you saw those increases in the first quarter and what you're seeing now kind of threading [ph] from the first quarter to the second quarter is, we've talked about in this business, historically, you've seen kind of 10% or high-single digit roll downs between move-in and move out rates and a lot of it is acuity related, but that's actually -- that got us (inaudible) 67:50 20% plus last year and it is starting to tighten into the mid-to low-single digit range. So, you're seeing some of those Jan 1 increases, I'd say, bleed off a little bit with -- there is still some negative leasing spreads on that and that's being offset by annual increases that are hitting throughout, pretty much evenly throughout the year in the other half of the portfolio.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
And as I mentioned, Mike, last call, right, if you have pretty much in scenario, which we haven't seen in a long time, which is, if street rate continues to go up the way it is going up that gap will continue to narrow and sort of -- it is conceivable that they come very close, we have seen couple of operators where actually it has crossed over. But there is a -- portfolio-wise, it is conceivable that they come very, very close. And that negative re-leasing spreads, that comes from the acuity creep that Tim talked about goes away. And so, but remember what we are also talking about this is sort of a problem that you chase again as you raise the -- you send the in-house increased letters [ph] again, right, and you chase that number again, right. So, this is a phenomena that frankly speaking, we haven't seen in a long time, eight or nine years were street rates are getting very close to in place. So, we're pretty encouraged by that.

Operator
Our next question comes from David Rodgers of Baird. Your line is open.

Q - David Rodgers{BIO 17980081 <GO>}
Yes, good morning. Shankh, you and Tim both mentioned ProMedica I think in your prepared comments and you went through some of the coverage ratios and agency labor statistics and basis, but I was kind of curious the spec that you spend a little bit more time this quarter, was that just related to where their coverage has gone and you reiterating comfort with that or are you having conversations or have they approached you about maybe making changes, I guess, that would be the first question and the second question is what about that portfolio relative to the other portfolio that you own has made them kind of lag in some of the recovery statistics that you mentioned? Thanks.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, I'm going to be -- I'm going to repeat what I said before. First is, understand a lot of that portfolio has a skilled nursing, which has been impacted obviously very significantly and it has been a very significant hedge from agency labor in that portfolio. What we report is a one quarter lag sort of a full quarter average got to up EBITDAR. What I mentioned if you look at, re-read the transcript, you will see that the improvement that they have seen has happened really in the last four, five months, and they have significantly narrowed their loss as occupancy has gone up and agency labor has come down, right. So that's sort of the overall underlying picture of what's happening. It is very important for you to understand as described before, that's rent, doesn't come from the (inaudible) right, that, and with the only reason we did that transaction, they and we mentioned this before, that rent was guaranteed by the mother ship [ph], right. So, that's very important for you to understand where that lies. As I mentioned, again, I'm going to say this, again, as I've mentioned before, right, we fundamentally believe that below market basis translates into below market rent like there is nothing -- there is no special insight into that. If you have a low basis and you have market rent constant, you will get to lower than market rent, right. So, on an average basis, for example, and (inaudible) ProMedica portfolio is roughly around $7,000 per bed of rent. If you look at any other skilled nursing provider, let's just take an example of Omega, you will see the average rent is about $10,000, right. So, that's sort of gives you a sense of if everything was exactly the same, the rent is 30% below, right. So, that sort of gives you order of magnitude. I'm not talking about specifics because it is hard to compare assets from portfolio one to portfolio two, but that's what would give you a sense, which gives us a lot of comfort that, you know, about, a, first our income from that portfolio, and, b, what we strive to do which is to achieve long-term returns as we deploy capital, and as I mentioned, I'm going to mention it again, I remain very comfortable that we're not losing our sleep over that income or that return from that portfolio. That's all I'm going to say.

Operator
Our next question comes from Nick Yulico with Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Q - Nicholas Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Thanks. I was just hoping to understand for the operator transition assets in Senior Housing, what's embedded in the guidance for the third quarter about any incremental sequential NOI drag there since I think you said, those assets are not in the same-store calculation? Thanks.

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Yes, correct. They're not in the same-store. So, the assets, just to, just to clarify, the assets that we -- in our July business update that we talked about transitioning, those are still in the same-store portfolio, they completed the quarter in -- under the management of the prior manager and then they're coming out going forward. From a sequential basis, we expect a slight drag from an FFO perspective, about 5% from those transitions.

Operator
Our next question comes from Rich Anderson with SMBC [ph]. Your line is open.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Hi, thanks, good morning everyone. So, I think we all get the message here on the short-term versus the long term, but I wanted to see if I can get some quantitative evidence of that, so the occupancy guide for the third quarter is 400 basis points year-over-year and that seems to imply a 120 basis points sequentially, which compares to 100 basis points sequential in the second quarter. So, we didn't get the seasonal pop in occupancy and I understand for the reasons you described. When you are sitting in your seat at NAREIT, and you were thinking about the third quarter at the time, how much do you think we lost by virtue of what happened with the COVID wave in June and the kind of the lost month of July, and where do you think the sequential number landing at 120 basis points as of now, would have been if not for the disruptions that you faced after NAREIT?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Right, yeah. So let's just,. I take the essence of your question. And there is no, debate about the fact that for specifically for third quarter and I mentioned this on my script that some of the growth has slipped into next year because we are not getting that growth in the third quarter, why because we lost the month of July. Right. So if you lose your traffic that margin first of the month, it's very, it's almost impossible to recover from that as you think through the sales cycle of tours translate into sales. Yes. So, let's just -- let's just -- I take the essence of your question and there is no, no, debate about the fact that for -- specifically for third quarter and I mentioned this on my script that some of the growth has slipped into next year because we are not getting that growth in the third quarter, why, because we lost the month of July, right. So, if you lose your traffic that much in first half of the month, it's very, very, it's almost impossible to recover from that as you think through the sales cycle, tours translate into sales, right. So, it's very important for you to understand that lost month was sort of, it's a very important month, right. So, we got an average occupancy growth in that month as John said about 40-plus basis points. There should have been double that, and that was not the case because we got hit. So, the only good news here as I will suggest to you and I think John mentioned this on his script that we started, first, call it first 10 days, first 15 days of July, tours were 40% below June, like we just -- the market just went away. By the time we ended the month we caught up on a cumulative basis, almost to the 95% of June. So if you think about you start at a 40% hole and we end up at a 5% hole. That sort of suggests to you, there is a remarkable progress made in the second half and that's sort of we are seeing that now the move-ins are coming back on back of the tours but by no question, but absolutely no question, Rich, that we, because of this COVID hits or sort of just call it try to be specific on something that you can be, that we saw between mid June to mid July has hit our June numbers on an expense basis which sort of recovered in July or at least hopefully recovered a lot in July and it hit revenue because all the tours went away, it hits revenue in July. I hope that sort of gives you a sense of how these -- this wave hit us and how that translates from one side of the quarter from the other side of the quarter.

Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Yes, thanks, John, I know you're hesitant to provide too many details on your data plan, but I wanted to touch on your comment, I mean, your prepared remarks that well as initiating on a data analytics pilot that is expected to roll out over the next six months, I guess, what does this actually mean and how this is different from the company's current data analytics programs that you have right now?

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yes, so it's better to look at it versus the operating platform. So the operating platform will drive -- will provide tremendous amounts of data, because we'll be able to gather all the nuanced information from -- the web hits the traffic all the way through, but currently we can gather more information from our operators. And that's really the opportunity that I'm taking mid-term, is to gather some more. So, we've been working with our operators to connect and in this particular case we connected with our cloud system to pull down on a daily basis the information that they currently have from the platforms that they're currently using. So, we haven't done that level of detail before. We get good reporting from them, but now we're upping in that game. And so from an interim basis that will inform us much better than we have right now from operating level. The company -- what the company has done from an investment side is untouchable but from the operating perspective, there are some more opportunities that I'm going after and that should help, help us from an asset management level.

Operator
Our next question comes from Juan Sanabria with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Just a longer-term question, I guess, you noted some transitions happening and near-term drag for a long-term opportunity, but at this point how should we think about the risk of further transitions into 2023? Are you confident that we are passed 90% of any potential transitions or is that just part of the business where there is always going to be some laggards and maybe look I think about kind of Goldman, calling 10% of their staff annually, is that kind of the way we should think about, there's always going to be some underperformers you're going to kind of rectify that as things go, or is this kind of we're at the end of, of that given where we are in COVID and cyclically?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, Juan, I think the way you should think about it for the COVID class of acquisitions that we have done, the transition -- operator transition system integration, all of those things are reaching, nearing completion, right. So, they are nearing completion. Now from the perspective of what you are asking, which is a more of a philosophical question than a planning question, right, we are of the belief that you have to earn your keep if you want to manage our properties. It's very simple, right. Managing our properties, which had substantial amount of capital is a given, and you see that in all other businesses where there is a competitive business, let us just take an example of multifamily, right, and if you look at people who are managers, the managers, they expect to earn their right to manage (inaudible). And frankly speaking, Senior Housing business has been very significant amount of complacency and we have not seen that. So, as long as people perform, we have absolutely no desire to move assets because it's disruptive. No one wants to do that, but if people don't perform, there will be transition, it's a lot of capital for our shareholders capital, tied up into the billings, so we are not going to sit here and take under performance. That's just not what we do. Near term underperformance because something happened to an asset completely understandable, but as John mentioned to you some of the basic operating standards are expected and if people don't perform, they're not going to be in our portfolio.

Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Griffin from Citi. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Griffin{BIO 6892741 <GO>}
It's Bilerman again. So, just a two quick follow-ups. Shankh, this is on ProMedica, who is funding the operating and cash flow losses today or is the entity just ticking on increased debt for that? So maybe you can just talk through the capital structure and how all of that's happening? And then secondarily, just going back to my opening question about sort of longer term and focusing on all of the initiatives and investments that you've made, I think back Burkart when you read FX, you've put out a three-year plan and I can remember (inaudible) and there was a lot of that, but do you think the company would benefit a little bit about, you have done a lot of sending out all of the impacts and opportunities to start to understand the earnings as well as the asset value, NAV, because it just feels that the market is focused to short-term and you can provide a lot more details, you've dropped little things like, the -- 59 transitions, 120 negative cash flow, but actually getting the details and really putting the building blocks to your 3D, your return based on everything that's involved I think would be really helpful. So if you can address those two things that would be good? Thank you.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, I'll take the first question. ProMedica is funding the operating cash flow losses. As you guys know it's an entity that has -- how their funding is very simple, that entity has, really has $2 billion of cash on their balance sheet. So, they are just using that cash to fund it. So, John, you want to add anything to Micheal's second question?

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yes, I mean, I will continue to provide more insight into the platform and as -- I'm a very simple person as you know, I call it the (inaudible), literally we will start all the way from traffic, i.e. web, and that type all the way through sales force management all the way through the operating platform, the ERP so to speak through every other aspect of the business, the HRIS, et cetera, and we will start to lay out more information. I will say from the past the -- my experience, the companies typically aren't laying out specific timelines for dollars. You layout paths [ph] as to what you expect to accomplish and how that will positively impact the business, but not necessarily timelines for dollars and I don't intend to do that, but I'm glad to get more clarity over time. We're running extraordinarily fast at this point in time and we'll provide some more detail on the coming calls and at NAREIT, et cetera.

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
And Michael, just as a continuation to the answer to your first question, I think, overall, you should certainly hear from us that we've been -- we've adapted the way that we've -- what we disclosed over the last 2.5 years in a pretty dynamic environment. So, a lot of it has been driven certainly by what we think is important and a lot of this is driven by feedback from individuals that result [ph] in investors. So, and I hope you've seen that and certainly continue to have the dialog with the market on what is helpful to be seen and we'll continue to adapt what we disclose based on that. So you shouldn't think there'll be any change in the way that we are approaching that.

Operator
We have reached the end of the question and answer session. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.