Q3 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
John Burkart, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
Matt McQueen, General Counsel
Nikhil Chaudhri, Senior Vice President, Co-Head of US Investments
Shankh Mitra, Shankh Mitra -- Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer
Tim McHugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President
Other Participants
Austin Wurschmidt, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Daniel Bernstein, Analyst, Capital One
David Rodgers, Analyst, Baird
Derek Johnston, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
John Pawlowski, Analyst, Green Street Advisors
Joshua Dennerlein, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Juan Sanabria, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Michael Carroll, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Mike Mueller, Analyst, JPMorgan
NIcholas Yulico, Analyst, Scotiabank
Nick Joseph, Analyst, Citi
Richard Anderson, Analyst, SMBC Nikko Securities
Ronald Kamden, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Steven Valiquette, Analyst, Barclays
Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Credit Suisse
Vikram Malhotra, Analyst, Mizuho Securities
Wendy Ma, Analyst, Evicore
Presentation
Operator
Hello, my name is Lisa, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Welltower Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Matt McQueen, General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Matt McQueen{BIO 18276475 <GO>}
Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh, for his remarks.

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you Matt. And good morning, everyone. Today, I'd like to describe our capital allocation priorities, ProMedica Senior Care transaction, and the rapidly evolving capital markets environment. I will also review some high-level business trends before handling the call over to John, who will provide details on operational trends and a brief update on our operating platform.

I'm very pleased with the progress we've made since we last spoke 90 days ago. Despite a flattish earnings trend on a sequential basis, driven by several existing headwinds, including FX, interest rate and utility expenses, our underlying business is actually improving meaningfully and setting up for the coiled spring recovery that we hope for. In our senior housing operating business, same-store revenue is up 10.8% year-over-year, driven by strong occupancy gains and, most importantly, pricing power. 5.3% same-store rate growth is the best we've seen in our recorded history, and I want to remind everyone that we're compounding already industry-leading rate growth from last year.

From these early trends, I believe you'll see a further improvement in Q4, which will create a strong setup for 2023. However, perhaps, what I'm most excited about is the progress we're making on the labor front with compensation per occupied unit is up 4.3% year-over-year, the lowest level of growth we've reported since the beginning of pandemic.

Our operating partners are experiencing a significant surge in applications, which has translated into strong increase in net hiring. In fact, in September, total portfolio monthly contract labor spend was the lowest since August of 2021 and subsequently improved in October. We believe this trend will continue into year end outside the normal pickup agency use during the holiday season and well into the next year.

We strongly believe the labor market is changing for the better and it will help our sector to be a total standout amongst all real-estate sectors next year, on a relative basis. SHO portfolio same-store NOI growth was 17.6% in the quarter led by U.S., which posted third quarter of 20 plus percent growth. And assisted living product type reported same-store NOI growth of an impressive 25.1%.

Let me highlight three operating partners for you that provide further insight into why I'm so pleased with our progress over the last 90 days. Number one Oakmont. As you recall, we transitioned 10 top California assets to Oakmont in August. While we expected some initial disruption to occupancy NOI during the transition, in actuality, we recognized an immediate benefit due to remarkable performance from Courtney's team. These assets have experienced a slight increase of NOI and occupancy despite challenges that are normally incurred during a transition. This is the first time I've seen a transition with no negative P&L impact, apart from the fixed assets which transitioned to Oakmont last year.

I expect these properties as well as the other assets that we transition to Oakmont to add significantly to our 2023 growth. If you are visiting San Francisco this month for NAREIT conference, I'll recommend you to join our property tour and experience first-hand the remarkable job this team has done. To my earlier point on shift of labor market during the summer, open positions across Oakmont platform were 16% of total jobs. It is down to low-single digit at this point.

Number two, StoryPoint. StoryPoint is one of our best operating partners, perhaps will be the source of biggest NOI swing next year. We've a $1 billion of investment with low occupancy properties which is generating approximately 2.7% yield in Q3. StoryPoint made remarkable improvement in the top line on both occupancy and rates, but the properties have not generated significant NOI in 2022 as these properties are just over the breakeven occupancy and agency cost was very detrimental.

Their open positions are now down more than 50% through the end of October and we expect 80% reduction of agency by end of this month. We believe that stabilized NOI for this group of portfolio is about circa $80 million, which will be substantially achieved in 2024. While we'll not close this gap in 2023, I expect we'll make significant strides next year and over the half year mark. We cannot be more (inaudible) with the execution then and the team has pulled off.

Number three, Sunrise. Sunrise is our largest operator. Due to a national presence, Sunrise experienced significant labor challenges and thus had to rely on contract labor for last many quarters. Jack and his team has made remarkable progress in this area over the last 60 days. Contract labor down 52% from year-to-date run rate and, I believe, Sunrise will be the biggest contributor to contract labor improvement in the coming months and quarters. Given strong rate Sunrise benefit from in this incredibly well-located Welltower buildings, we should see extremely strong NOI growth contribution from Sunrise.

While we're encouraged -- very encouraged by these trends and our fourth quarter guidance of 21% growth at the midpoint, I'll remind you that we're at the very early inning of seniors housing recovery. We'll remain as excited as ever about the growth prospects in coming years, and the 80 plus population growth will continue to accelerate and as new construction in this sector will come to a near standstill. In fact, 2023 should see 4.5% increase in 80 plus population as, you may have observed, only 2700 units got started in Q3. And, frankly, I don't even understand how these people will make any money in development.

While new development should continue to come down, assuming people want to develop to make any money, another interesting phenomenon we are observing is that thousands of units are being taken offline, either because of obsolescence or because of higher and better use like behavioral health. As of 09/30, almost 15,000 units were taken offline on a TTM basis.

I also want to highlight consistent and steady performance of our outpatient medical group under Ian's leadership. Our retention rate for the quarter is a remarkable 92.7% and rent spreads are ticking up into the mid-threes. Both new and renewal leases -- for both new and renewal leases, I'm pleased that our weighted-average escalators are now above 3%. I'm also pleased that the low interest rate environment and the wall of capital that drove 2% to low 2% escalators seems to be a thing of the past.

Kelsey-Seybold, which is our largest MOB tenant and also represents a very significant portion of development pipeline, was acquired by UnitedHealth during the summer. The significant credit upgrade of our largest tenant and our development client represents a meaningful value-creation for our shareholders. The most significant change we observed in this -- however, in the MOB space is the remarkable widening of cap rates. I've said like a broken record for a long time that MOB cap rates made no sense to us given where the forward view of inflation was relative to underlying growth rate of the cash flow.

I'm pleased to see other capital sources are now waking up to the ugly realities of real return on capital in this inflationary environment. There was nothing wrong with this asset class except price, and I'm relieved to see that has finally changed. Billions of dollars of transactions were consummated at low cap rates often with short-term floating rate debt. The party is over with capital structure and cash flow as many of these vehicles are now upside-down. We'll be observing the space closely in the coming months and quarter.

Now, I would like to discuss our recent restructuring of a lease with ProMedica Health System. I'm not going to bore you with the details of our fundamental thesis of this investment in 2018. I laid it out clearly when we did this transaction. We didn't predict COVID and the impact -- and its impact on the cash-flow portfolio and frankly we're underwhelmed by the execution. But the fundamental investment thesis of the original transaction should still protect our shareholders' capital, that basis and appropriate structure are critical to any real-estate investment.

While we have historically relied on our operators' ability to drive cash flow and thus yield, we never make real-estate investment decisions based on yield. We believe success in real-estate investment over a long period of time is a function of right basis and staying power. If you own an apartment in New York City for $400,000, while everybody owns equivalent apartment for $1 million, you can still charge rent for that unit and generate strong returns. That is such a simple yet perhaps one of the most overlooked concepts on Wall Street. The cacophony of noise around ProMedica's negative EBITDAR coverage over the last few months have reached a fever pitch. And we honestly understand and empathize with this Pavlovian response as the history of healthcare REIT sector is full of remedies such as massive rent cuts or disposal of assets at fire sale prices that result in significant value destruction to shareholders.

Even though, I'm personally humbled by the cash-flow deterioration in the ProMedica portfolio, let me repeat that we're not experiencing a rent cut on a cash basis and our investors are the beneficiary of a satisfactory total return to date. And that goes back to an incredibly favorable basis and structure. To continue my metaphor -- previous metaphor, Manhattan apartment rent might come down from $5000 to $4000 in a bad year. But we never hypothetically even charge $4000 as we bought our unit at such a low price. That is why our rent is now going up, not down, after this transaction. And I continue to believe it remains below market and will be a source of future value-creation.

As I mentioned in our last call, ProMedica has made significant strides in reducing its operating losses, which have further narrowed in last 90 days through both occupancy gains and lower labor cost, contract labor costs particularly. Integra or its parent entity, which we've done multiple transactions previously, has successfully executed many turnarounds including those involving HCR assets that we sold it to them in the last couple of years, and is well-positioned to return these assets to its previous glory using a regional operator strategy, just like they have done over the last couple of years.

We are looking through Integra's parent entity and the owner for the downside protection through subordination of their equity as well as significant other guarantees and will subsequently share significant value-creation with us. But I cannot overemphasize that the fundamental idea of below-market rent basis equals to below-market rent is not about ProMedica, it is about our belief how we invest and protect our shareholders' capital.

If a business has demand growth and you can own it for significantly less than what it cost to build in a low-leverage capital structure, it is challenging for me to see how we lose money in most scenarios. We remain partner with ProMedica albeit on a much smaller scale, and we'll be delighted to see the significant credit improvement of this important institution in Toledo.

Finally, let's discuss the current capital markets environment, which excites me to no end. Before I go into what we might do in the future, let's discuss what we have done in the past under this leadership team. If we go back and read all our comments about capital deployment in the last few years, you will notice few attributes. One, we're unlevered IRR buyers and we underwrite significant cap rate expansion at exit. Hence, the recent rate increase don't fluster us just as we have never chased low rates down under the guise of low cost of capital.

Two, our unrelenting focus on basis relative replacement cost and as a result we seriously dislike low cap rates in stabilized occupancy scenarios. Nothing has happened so far even in these turbulent capital markets backdrop that require us to change how we invest capital. We are experiencing historic volatility in the treasury market in every part of -- with every part of the yield curve inverted right now with significantly the most important two to 10 curve is as inverted as it was during Paul Volcker's time 40 years ago.

One approach for us would be to ride out this storm in a shelter and do nothing. But those of you who know us well know we're unlikely to do so. We maintain a fairly favorable capital position and (inaudible) due to our extremely capital -- extremely talented capital markets team under the leadership of Tim. Despite our unfavorable public cost-of-capital on a spot basis, today we have no doubts of global institutions who want to partner with us. And let me remind you again a simple capital allocation framework I've described to you before.

Every company effectively has four choices of raising capital. One, tapping internal cash flow. Two, issuing debt. Three, issuing equity. And four, disposition of existing assets. It also has five essentially choices of deploying that capital. One, investing in existing assets. Two, acquisitions. Three, buying debt at a discount. Four, paying a dividend. And five, buying stock at a discount. You can loosely call the first set of choices as selling. But the right description would be sourcing or raising capital. You can loosely call the second set of choices as buying. But perhaps the correct description will be deployment of capital.

Following the same line of thinking, loosely speaking, consistently buying low and selling high creates value for shareholders. In a more wholesome and thoughtful description, optimizing these choices from this menu of sources and uses, in a tax-efficient manner, creates meaningful value for continuing shareholders on a per-share basis. Our goal is to maximize per-share value and per-share cash flow, not to become the biggest or the most revolutionary. Our capital allocation team on both sides of the balance sheet is poised to pounce on this great menu of opportunities what the most volatile interest rate environment in four decades has put in front of us. And at the same time, John's team is just getting started on the journey of cash flow and platform optimization.

With that, I'll pass it over to John. John?

John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you, Shankh. I'll provide some insight into our operating business, starting with the medical office portfolio. In the third quarter, same-store NOI growth for outpatient medical business was 1.4% over the prior year's quarter, which was below trend, due to some timing issues on tenant improvements, delaying move-ins, and higher utility expenses. We continue to see strong retention levels at 93% in the quarter and accelerating renewal rates in the marketplace. Turning to our Senior Housing operating portfolio, the recovery in this sector continues. As Shankh mentioned, revenue at our same-store portfolio came in at 10.8% in the third quarter compared to the prior year's quarter.

All three regions showed strong revenue growth starting with Canada at 4.4%, the U.S. and UK growing at an impressive 11.6% and 18.9%, respectively. Revenue growth for the quarter was driven by a 390 basis point increase in occupancy, and another quarter of healthy pricing power with RevPOR growth of 5.3%, as Shankh mentioned the highest we've witnessed. Sequentially, the portfolio Occupancy continued to improve with a gain of 110 basis points during the quarter.

While expenses remain a challenge, our operators continue to control expense for or expense per occupied room. The comp for or compensation per occupied room only grew at 4.3% in the third quarter over the prior year's quarter, the lowest growth rate since 2019. Expense for grew at a rate of 3.7% in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis, well below our RevPOR growth of 5.3%, driving expansion of 130 basis points on a Year-over-Year basis in our margin.

As our operators have pivoted from the COVID state to normalized operations, and as labor and materials have become more available, we have aggressively addressed maintenance that was delayed during COVID, which resulted in slightly elevated repairs and maintenance during -- and maintenance expense during the quarter. Overall, the quarter's occupancy gains, strong RevPOR and expense controls enabled the Senior Housing operating portfolio to deliver 17.6% year-over-year same-store NOI growth in the period led by the U.S. with over 20% year-over-year growth, while Canada NOI grew at 6.3% and UK was up 9.8%.

Going forward, we expect the operating portfolio to continue to deliver outside NOI growth with each geography expected to experience accelerating NOI growth in the fourth quarter. As we look forward to what many believe will be a weaker labor market in 2023, it's important to realize that labor as an expense represents about 60% of our total expenses. Additionally, nurses are only about 5% of the labor force at the communities. And although there are other more specialized positions at the communities, most of the positions require skills that are transferable from other sectors of the economy allowing us to benefit from a softer labor market, as Shankh noted.

Regarding our operating platform, we continued to quickly move forward on plans to pilot our first module in early 2023, with several other modules in the works. Like all technology rollouts, it's about people, processes, data, and then technology. So, it's not about flipping a switch, it takes team works. The results will show up over time. Our meetings with our operators have been very productive as we bring together their skills and experience with our own to build a better future for the industry.

Finally, I would like to thank our operators and their employees for making these results possible. It's been a full spread since the beginning of COVID and they have addressed one challenge after the next. We're finally at a point where it seems like there is light at the end of the tunnel. Occupancy continues to rise. Net hiring is occurring month after month. RevPOR continues to outpace expense for, which will drive further margin expansion and so much more.

We wish to thank everyone and wish them a wonderful Thanksgiving. And thank you for your hard work. I'll now turn the call over to Tim.

Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our third quarter 2022 results, the performance of our triple net investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity, our balance sheet and liquidity update, and finally our outlook for the fourth quarter. Welltower reported third quarter normalized funds from operations of $0.84 per diluted share, representing 6.2% growth over the prior year period when adjusting for HHS, funds received, and changes in FX rates, marking our second consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth since the start of the pandemic. We also reported our second consecutive quarter positive total portfolio same-store NOI growth with 7.2% year-over-year growth.

Turning to our triple net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats reported a quarter in arrears. So, these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 06/30/2022. In our senior housing triple net portfolio, same-store NOI increased 1.6% year-over-year, below the low end of our guidance range which is primarily timing-related. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage is 0.83 times in the quarter.

Next, same-store NOI and our long-term post-acute portfolio grew 3.1% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage 1.31 times. And lastly, health systems, which comprised of our joint venture with ProMedica Health System, had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.75% year-over-year, and trailing 12-month EBITDAR and EBITDAR coverages were negative 0.01 and negative 0.6, respectively, as operations continue to be impacted by high agency utilization cost in the second quarter relative to the prior year.

(inaudible) context of our announcement last night, trailing 12-month ProMedica Senior Care EBITDAR coverage of negative 0. 01 implied trailing 12-month EBITDAR of negative $1.6 million relative to $168 million of cash rent paid in the trailing 12-month period ending 06/30/2022. The transitioning of the skilled nursing business will bring the remaining ProMedica Senior Care EBITDAR back to profitability with the trailing 12-month coverage of nearly two times relative to the remaining rent on the 58 assisted living facilities they will continue to operate. Thus, the transition to Integra Health has a dual benefit, providing us a well-capitalized and strategic partner to focus on the skilled nursing properties while also leaving ProMedica Senior Care in a substantially better financial state following the transaction.

Turning to capital market activity. In the quarter, we continued to enhance our balance sheet strength by utilizing our ATM program to raise approximately $760 million of forward equity at an average price of $80.12. We settled 9.1 million shares for total proceeds of $842 million to fund $1 billion of net investment activity, leaving $1.5 billion of unsettled foward ATM as of 09/30. Post quarter end, we settled additional ATM proceeds to fund investment activity and pay down $850 million of total debt, $817 million of which was floating rate.

Post that pay down, we've the full $4.0 billion available borrowing capacity on our line-of-credit and no unsecured maturities until 2024. We expect to finish the fourth quarter with consolidated net debt to EBITDA below 6.5 times for the first time since 2020. From a liquidity perspective, in addition to the $4 billion capacity in line-of-credit, we have $1 billion of cash in foward equity and $580 million remaining near-term dispositions and loan pay-down proceeds (inaudible) yield, representing $5.6 billion of total near-term liquidity.

Lastly, moving to our fourth quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the fourth quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.8 to $0.13 per diluted share and normalized FFO of $0.80 to $0.85 per diluted share or $0.825 cents at the midpoint. As mentioned in the release, our fourth quarter guidance contemplates no HHS funds to be received in the fourth quarter. So, after adjusting for $0.015 cents of non-recurring items including HHS funds received in the third quarter, we're effectively flat for sequential FFO. The sequential change is composed of $0.02 from sequential increases in Senior Housing operating portfolio, and $0.01 from sequential increases in Outpatient Medical and Senior Housing triple net. These are offset by $0.03 of interest expense and foreign exchange headwinds.

Underlying this FFO guidance, it is estimated total portfolio year-over-year same-store NOI growth of 8.5% to 10.5%, driven by sub-segment growth of outpatient medical 1.5% to 2.5%, long-term post-acute 2.5% to 3.5%, senior housing triple net 5% to 6%, and finally senior housing operating growth of 18.5% to 23.5%, driven by revenue growth of approximately 9.5% year-over-year. Underlying this revenue growth is an expectation of approximately 200 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy increase and rent growth of approximately 7%.

And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shankh.

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thanks, Tim. One of my mentors, Peter Kauffmann often says life is not about predicting, it's about positioning. Did we predict that ProMedica's EBITDAR coverage will turn negative? Absolutely not. But we positioned for it and structured as such. Did we know COVID will happen and availability of credit in senior housing sector will weaken? No. But we positioned for it. We own more than 11,000 units of age-restricted and age-targeted apartments that will benefit from government agency backstop financing at very attractive pricing from which we can generate couple of billions of dollars of proceeds.

Did we predict that our stock will be in the low 60s and we'll lose our access to equity capital? No, we didn't. But we positioned for it and raised $3.28 billion of capital at an average price of $86.55 this year. We have no idea if rates are going back down or going back up and how ugly that capital markets environment might turn before it gets better. We're laser-focused on what we can control and have an incredible organization that is rallying to take advantage of the opportunities with (inaudible) as opposed to gamblers (inaudible). I cannot be more excited about the period of unprecedented per share value creation that we are embarking on for our existing owners.

And with that, I'll open the call up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions). Your first question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra with Mizuho.

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Good morning. Thanks so much for taking the question. Just a quick two-parter here. One, you talked a lot about pricing power, you gave the examples across operators on how pricing and labor is improving. Just how sustainable is this across your regions, maybe within the U.S. but also globally, and then can you just add on to that any early signs that the elevated flu is impacting fundamentals? Thank you.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
I'll take the pricing part, John, if you take the flu, that's great. So, from a pricing power standpoint, Vikram, if you just look at what we said at the beginning of the year, nothing really changed except if you think about what happens is in the industry, not at least for our portfolio, you get a lot of renewals in the beginning of the year, and this year we got very strong pricing obviously. And given that there is a gap between where market rent is as well as where your renewal rates are, obviously what the rents that are rolling off, there is a gap over a period of the year that sort of comes down, right? That's sort of what happens in a normal year. What we have said this year given that market rents have been rising at a faster rate than annual rate, first time honestly in like a decade, so we have seen that gap close down pretty meaningfully, and you're seeing RevPOR increases are actually getting better through the year.

You add on top of that that we are seeing some early renewals for next year in that sort of call it another 10-ish percent range, and we expect that obviously will do similar type of pricing increases as we come to next year, you will see that pricing power will continue to hold up and RevPOR rate increases will continue to hold up. So, we're pretty excited about it, but remember pricing power also comes in many forms and substances, right? So, you have occupancy of the portfolio and many parts of the portfolio is getting to a point, overall portfolio might still be at 80% occupancy, but various segments of the portfolio are well above high 80s and 90% occupancy where it starts to get pretty meaningful pricing power because you have (inaudible) to sell anymore, right?

So, as we get into that environment more and more, I believe that you will see sustainable pricing power. I have no crystal ball on exactly what the macroeconomic environment would be next year, but as we sit here today, we feel very good about pricing.

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yeah, on your question regarding the flu, I most certainly can't predict the future, but what I can say is that the COVID protocols, I think, will mitigate the situation within our communities. They're in place. I was at one of the properties very recently and I'm waiting in line to get in, to wash hands, get temperature check, wear a mask, etc., and I'm in a line with employees, any vendor, all of us. That's the protocol. It's a state's thoughtful protocol. And so my expectation is that that will have a very positive impact in the communities, how the flu season goes in the U.S. and otherwise. I can't predict that but I do think that COVID protocols will be very positive going forward.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Derek Johnston with Deutsche Bank.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Hi, everybody. Good morning. Could we discuss the newly authorized $3 billion in share repurchase program. How do you feel about the shares at current levels? And, I guess, the possible timing of execution given the announcement comes in conjunction with earnings which is same, Shankh? Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Good morning, Derek. I think I laid out pretty clearly what our possible capital deployment opportunities look like. Buying back shares is one of them. And frankly speaking, as you know how we think, we are unlevered IRR buyers and we look at everything from that lens, or you can look at from the basis lens and you will see that we find our stock to be very, very attractively priced, and we'll measure that against every other opportunities we have. I cannot predict on timing. That's just not the -- we just don't do that, as you know, but we know -- you know how we think. We think through a lens basis to replacement cost, and we think through an eye of a total unlevered IRR. And if you do those calculations, you will come to perhaps the same conclusion that we have come to.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Pawlowski with Green Street.

Q - John Pawlowski{BIO 20091888 <GO>}
Thanks for your time. John Burkart, as operations recover in the SHO portfolio, between AL versus IL, you expect structurally different margins between the two businesses once fundamentals fully stabilize?

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
They naturally are different margins starting out, but I think that the endpoint will change. I think what we're doing with the operating platform will change that across-the-board. And because AL has perhaps one might say more opportunity, though the impact might be slightly greater there, but I think the whole business is going in the right direction at this point in time. And I think we're benefiting across-the-board.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
John, you didn't ask for my opinion. My $0.02 on this topic is that you will see more improvement in AL than IL. But you will see improvement in both. But you asked the right person that question.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Ma with Evicore.

Q - Wendy Ma{BIO 19487840 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Thank you for taking my question. So, could you please give us some color about the moving trend of different senior housing property types like AL and the senior apartments? And also given the current slowdown of the housing transaction markets, have you observed any slowdown of your independent living moving?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
I'm not sure I completely followed that question. But I think you asked about the moving trends in the seniors apartment business if I heard that correctly? Go ahead, Wendy.

Q - Wendy Ma{BIO 19487840 <GO>}
And also, sorry, can you give some color for different senior housing types like IL, AL, and also the senior apartments?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. Okay. So, I think I understand the question. So, look, I mean, if you think about from a product-type perspective, as I mentioned that the assisted living is going through probably the most robust recovery, perhaps for nothing other than the fact that it is the most need-based environment, it's least susceptible to macroeconomic environment. When you need it -- you need the product when you need it and obviously it also fell further. So, we have more rooms to climb back up. So, that's where you're seeing the most sort of robust recovery. As I mentioned, the NOI growth in that sector for the quarter was 25 plus percent, right? So that sort of (inaudible) talked about the seniors apartment business. That business has been as good of a business as any business I've seen. It's been very strong through COVID. It's been very, very strong through times. I mean our portfolio is at 95 plus percent occupancy. As you know, we operate in the mid-market portion of that business which is very dependent on Social Security and everything else. And you got a massive COLA increase next year, which we also think will be very beneficial for the pricing power increase in that business next year.

Independent living, obviously independent living did not fall as far as assisted living and it's coming back more slowly. But that is a -- I personally think that's a good business when you combine that with other property types. And I think, obviously Canada, which is our majority of our independent living exposure, had been slower to recover, but as John noted that we're starting to see improvement there.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Bernstein with Capital One.

Q - Daniel Bernstein{BIO 17544174 <GO>}
Hey, good morning. I just wanted to kind of expand on your comments about the upside-down, I guess private buyers in the MOB space. Just trying to understand there a little bit more if lenders are actually foreclosing on assets and maybe if you are already seeing some opportunities there to buy assets at a better IRR? And maybe on a related question, does that -- do your comments also apply to seniors housing and skilled nursing where, I believe, there are some upside-down loans as well?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. So, Dan, we haven't seen lenders are foreclosing on medical office loans yet. But my comment was if you -- it's just called the convexity of the situation right? When you have very, very low rates and people buy in cap rates that are in that environment makes sense and then treasury curve moves 200, 300 basis points. And now your treasury curve is sitting on top of or above the cap rates that you have paid, that's a clear upside-down convexity situation. And that's the comment I was making. It takes time for lenders to foreclose, it takes time, but we are starting to see some meaningful increase in the cap rates there, which is interesting. We're not yet to talk about whether we are going to look at that and execute on that yet, we have lots of opportunities that we see on a relative basis. We've talked about obviously senior housing is one of those, nothing changed. I'm specifically pointing out MOBs because that has changed.

Senior housing has -- an opportunity was there for last 18 months and we're executing on it, nothing changed there, right, and continues to be super-attractive. On top of that to the earlier question Derek asked, our stock is really attractive. So we look at every opportunity and think about what's the unlevered IRR on a risk-adjusted basis, and what's the sort of execution risk as well as obviously the frictional costs that comes with execution risk. But is the space finally first time in years has become interesting? The answer is yes. But it's interesting at a price. And that price is likely a lot lower than most Wall Street takes.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ronald Kamdem with Morgan Stanley.

Q - Ronald Kamden
Hey, just one -- one two-parter. Just looking back at the slide and the DAC on the long-term $543 million embedded NOI, my question is just on that $230 million that comes from getting back to 4Q '19 NOI levels. Your comment sounds like you're pretty constructive on sort of margin improvement, especially with sort of the acceleration you saw in revenues relative to expenses this quarter. Can you just remind us how you're thinking about the margins of that $230 million versus sort of the 4Q '19 level? Is part one. And if I could sneak in a part two, which is just on the ProMedica consideration, that $0.5 billion, how much is that is the 15% stake that they're giving up and how much is that sort of the working capital? Sorry. Thanks.

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Yeah. I'll start with the first comment on the margin side. The assumption is we get back to pre-COVID levels. So, no assumption on change in margins. We assume to get back to pre-COVID level of profitability and operating margins of about 30.8% across the portfolio.

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Ron, the consideration is roughly half-and-half.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Yeah, I just wanted to touch on the new SNF JV. I know you just kind of highlighted the rough size of the operating reserves ProMedica is going to be providing. But how is that going to be distributed to the new operators? Are they simply earmarked to fund near-term cash-flow losses during the transition? And what happens if these new operators don't actually need to access those reserves?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, the reserves are earmarked for the operating losses, working capital losses. And that reserve will go to them to improve the quality of the portfolio.

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
I think if they do a good job and don't need them all, that's good for them right? So, they share the risk and they get the benefit of their savings there.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of (inaudible) with Credit Suisse.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi. Yes. Good morning. Again, congrats on the quarter and the transition. I've been covering this for 15 years. I don't think I've ever seen a rent restructuring where the rents went up. So, that's pretty cool to see. In regards to Integra and again this idea that they're going to be subleasing a lot of the assets to regional operators. Just curious a little bit again your mind trying to possibly get close to the operator as you possibly can. You actually went on the Board at ProMedica. How is that relationship going to be with the subcontracted operators? And how do you kind of manage that, so I'm sure you continued to kind of get operational excellence out of them?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Tao [ph], extraordinary good question and thank you for your comment there. I'll just one -- add one thing to that, not only the rent is going up, also the previous tenant is living close to $0.5 million from the table to make sure that these properties are taken care of going forward, so we thank our partner for that. So, I'll just add to the question of why we didn't go and find the offers. Our mantra is to get close to the operators, but that's in the senior housing business. I fundamentally believe in the expertise, and we have worked with Integra and its parent company on many of these transactions before. There is no question that they are significantly better in the skilled nursing business than we ever were and will ever be, right? So, we are sharing -- and for creating that value, I've mentioned in my script that we're sharing very significant upside that they can create with them.

In return, they're providing us the downside protection which is very important for us. So, you think about is you got to do in life what you are best at, right? Think about from an op standpoint, we think we understand operations of senior living, the wellness housing business as well as MOB business. And we want to partner with people who we fundamentally believe, on the other hand, are very good in other businesses and that's what you're saying. Fundamentally, it is sort of going through -- the decision-making is going to the people who are the best at -- what they're good at, at the same time it's sort of cut the risk reward in terms of who creates value, it's just as simple as that.

As I've said before, you know you can see the value still remains a very attractively -- very attractive basis what you can get to, you know the total rent, you know what markets sort of rent -- sort of constant how skilled nursing business is, and you can divide to get to a value. And you will see that value is still extraordinarily attractive. And thus, the rent is extraordinarily attractive and remains below market. So, there will be hopefully a lot of upside as the regional operators bring this portfolio back to its previous glory, which we actually -- this is not a guess, right? We have -- how many assets we have transacted, ManorCare --ManorCare assets we've transacted with Integra and it's parents?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
About 21 assets.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
21 assets right? We've seen them doing it and we are going on an execution path that we've seen in the last couple of years. So, hopefully, there is a lot of value to be created for residents, for employees, for capital, and that will be shared between the two parties. But it is fundamentally the belief of they're giving us the downside protection for which they should enjoy very significant upside that they create. On the other hand, for us, it's all about where we sit in the (inaudible) spectrum. So, it's a win, win, win for all three parties. ProMedica wants to focus on its core business and wants to be in the higher margin business and that's the leadership that they are taking that forward, it is a very significant improvement in the credit. For Welltower, it's obviously a great day for some value realization as well as obviously taking this portfolio to the hands where we can create another round of very significant upstep of values. For Integra, they're coming in at a very attractive basis and obviously they're creating the value that they'll share the upside with us. So, it's a win, win, win on all fronts.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.

Q - Mike Mueller{BIO 3519301 <GO>}
Yeah. Hi. We appreciate the expanded development disclosure. So, what's the timeframe that you see for ramping the developments from the 1.6% initial yield to the 7% stabilized yields?

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yeah, I appreciate the recognition that -- we're trying to help with just the ramp or the kind of trajectory of how that cash-flow comes through. And it depends on type of development. So, I think about our -- where a lot of our starts have been as of late is more in the senior apartments wellness housing side and there you're talking about more 12, 18-month type ramps towards stabilization. And on the traditional senior housing side, it's more of that 24, 36-month ramp. And that's where more of the lower yields, negative yields come in the first 12 months.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Nic Yulico with Scotiabank.

Q - NIcholas Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning, everyone. I just want to go back to ProMedica, clearly strong pricing you got there and the cash rent going up, it's attractive. Just want to see though if you could let us know the GAAP impact because I didn't see any mention of lease escalators for the new arrangement you hadn't previously? So, just trying to understand the FFO impact from this. And separately, if you had -- I don't know if you're going to be filing details on the new lease, but if you had anything you can share right now in terms of escalators, financial covenants, capex requirements because those were specific very sort of onerous conditions of the last lease with ProMedica which kind of strengthened, I think the whole process you went through. So, any detail there would be helpful. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thanks. Nic, very good question. The escalators remain the same 2.75%. And the GAAP impact, as we mentioned, will be roughly neutral to slightly accretive. One of the leases remaining the same lease, ManorCare, not the Arden Courts Senior living lease is going to 10-year. So, you have a negative GAAP impact there. So, net-net, you will be roughly neutral to slightly accretive.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Austin Wurschmidt with KeyBanc.

Q - Austin Wurschmidt{BIO 17905696 <GO>}
Yeah. Hi, good morning. I'm curious, first-off, if there were other partners you approach for the new -- the ProMedica joint venture. How do we think about you going from a health system investment with feeders into these assets to the more regional operator approach? And then just lastly, I'm curious kind of going back to 2016, 2017, wasn't the plan to ultimately exit the SNF business? And so curious how you think about the strategic direction of that segment of the portfolio?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, can you please repeat the first part of your question again?

Q - Austin Wurschmidt{BIO 17905696 <GO>}
Yeah. I was just curious if you approached any other partners beyond just Integra for the new joint venture?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So, look, it is no secret that we have been thinking about -- in the industry that we have been thinking about this particular portfolio for a long time. We have been approached by at least five parties who were interested in doing this transaction a similar or higher-value -- similar or higher structured. We went with a partner that we know very well, where we felt the execution risk is much lower. But I think if you have heard -- that you have correctly heard that we've been approached by many groups because these assets are not only very attractive assets, they've very good history, also the basis remains very, very attractive.

Going back to 2016, 2017, I think your question was to exit the SNF business. I had very clearly laid out two years ago when I took over as the CEO, we have a very simple strategy that we want to make money on a risk-adjusted basis on a per-share basis for our existing shareholders. That's the strategy and it's a very simple strategy. Whether it's skilled nursing, whether it's medical office, whether it's seniors apartments, whether it's senior housing, what is debt, equity, value, development, opportunistic, we'll go anywhere we can find opportunities to make money on a per-share basis for existing shareholders. That's the simple strategy.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with BMO Capital Markets.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Shankh, I was just hoping you could talk to maybe opportunities you see outside of the U.S., given the unusually strong U.S. dollar and whether that presents a wider opportunity set for potential acquisitions?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Juan, extraordinarily good question. As you know, we get really excited about basis and USD -- we raise capital on USD, our expenses are mostly in USD, capital structures in USD, and we think about basis in terms of USD. And as you can figure out, UK on a U.S. dollar basis has never looked more attractive. And Canada also looks pretty attractive. But UK particularly given what happens to the currency situation looks extraordinarily attractive.

You add on top of that, that you don't have a super-functioning debt market in UK, like you have agency support in U.S. and Canada. It's a very, very interesting market. I have never seen UK -- UK opportunities as cheap as it looks today, from a -- from the eye of an U.S. dollar investor. And that probably perhaps goes for any asset class, anything, even for shoppers. So you're picking up the right thing. We're absolutely thinking about it.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with SMBC.

Q - Richard Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Hey, thanks. Good morning. Congrats on the ProMedica Integra transaction. The market seems to be rewarding you for that resolution. But the way I look at it is you kind of married ProMedica in 2018, but you've signed a prenup and -- that protect your downside, and all this is based on basis, it's all clear and understood. But now, you're selling 15% Integra. What happens to basis for that 15%, in other words 85%, I assume, stays put. But are you selling -- are you upping your basis and eliminating some of that "prenup" component so that if there is a disruption going forward with Integra and its regional partners that you still have an equal amount of protection, should something go wrong here because a transition isn't a silver bullet, it usually -- it sometimes works but sometimes not. So, I just wanted to get a gauge on the future in terms of how you're protected going forward? Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. So, our basis remains the same. And you can do the calculation on, again you have the total rent, you know what the give or take yield is in the business right? And you can get to the total value, rent divided by the yield will get you the value. You can divide that by the total number of beds and you will see Integra's basis is also very attractive, right? So, our basis remains attractive. Remember what we sold to Integra is what we got for ProMedica for nothing, right? So, it's important for you to understand the nuances of what's happening here.

So, our basis remains very attractive. Obviously, we got the support for the operator who is living and living, as I mentioned, living close to $0.5 billion from the table. We created another structure where that 15% which Integra is paying for remains subordinated that further lowers our net basis which is the first time when, I remember I talked about that, that condition remains. We have obviously other guarantees in place, as I said, and if that's not the case, remember in the last question I said that people want these assets because they are very well-located assets and they are at very good location, and they're very attractive basis.

So, we don't see, as I said, look anything can happen, Rich. But as I've mentioned before, four years ago, on this topic that low-basis, well-located assets that have demand that's held in low-leverage structure is hard to see how we lose money. Anything can happen, right? Anything is possible. But if you think about we have to live within the realms of probabilities not possibilities, it looks pretty good to me.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Griffin with Citi.

Q - Nick Joseph{BIO 16891718 <GO>}
Thanks. It's Nick Joseph here with Michael. You talked a lot about the opportunity for improvements and modernization senior housing. But when you look at the skilled side and I recognize it's a very different business, more regulatory considerations and everything like that. But are there opportunities to improve the operations or share best practices from a well perspective that maybe could help coverage going forward.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Nick, first congratulations for getting the top job. We have been a big fan of yours for a long time. And, obviously thank you for your question on the call today. So, look, I've mentioned very, very clearly that we do not consider ourselves as skilled nursing expert. If we did, then we would not bring in our partners in this deal who we consider knows the business better than we do. So, I will leave that to our partner to execute the strategy which we have mentioned, as Nikhil just mentioned, that we have done just from this portfolio, 21 assets before. We leave it to them to maximize. You know where in this case is sort of a structural protection is what we are after, not maximizing value through operators. That's what they are bringing to the table in this case. And we remain focused on our core businesses, where -- whether it's senior living, whether it's wellness housing or medical office and that's where John is spending all his time.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with Barclays.

Q - Steven Valiquette{BIO 1928887 <GO>}
Great. Thanks. Good morning. Yeah, just sticking with ProMedica for a minute here. I guess one of the excited operational synergies from ProMedica acquiring the ManorCare SNF assets in the first place was likely centered around good flow of patient referrals from ProMedica Hospitals into these some of the ManorCare SNFs made sense geographically. I guess I'm curious with hindsight, did that part of the strategy play out the way everyone thought it would? Maybe just perhaps the underwhelming execution that you alluded to, Shankh, was just more a function of just tough industry dynamics for SNFs overall? And also under the new agreement and as ProMedica patient referrals to the SNFs under Integra as operating control stay intact going forward or as part of the strategy for Integra to turn things around is related to maybe widen and expand the Medicare post-acute referral sources to improve the occupancy.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Let me try to address your question, Steve. And, Nikhil, you jump in. First is that fundamentally the strategic part of the patient flow point that you made has not played out. And has it not played out because we walk directly into a very tough environment of COVID or has it not played out because the idea we couldn't execute or ProMedica could not execute, I don't know the answer to that question, hindsight is 2020 right? But there is no question that it hasn't been played out, and the leadership at ProMedica first-hand will tell you that there are underwhelmed with the execution as well. So, no question it hasn't played out.

And the second -- but if you think about again. I would recommend you it's hard to say things -- easy to say things sort of looking back. I would like you to go back to the call where I've described why we did this transaction and you will see how much we emphasized that we fundamentally think if everything goes away, what we still have is the basis right? Think about, Steve, as I mentioned, that you have a two-bedroom apartment in New York City where it cost -- it cost everybody $1 million bucks but you bought something for $400,000 during GFC. You don't need to charge the rent that everybody else is charging. That is the fundamental idea of how you make money in real-estate without taking a lot of risk, right? And that's what we saw and that has played out, I hopefully you'll agree, in this transaction.

Nikhil, you want to add anything to the second part of the question?

A - Nikhil Chaudhri{BIO 16739254 <GO>}
Yeah. I think from a clinical programing perspective, I think this portfolio, ManorCare ProMedica, has always been good at providing good clinical programming. And they work closely with hospitals across different markets, whether it's ProMedica hospitals or not, in creating programing that serves the need for the local hospitals. And that programming stays in place. And obviously as new operators come in, they will decide if they want to keep that in place, scale that back, enhance it, but this whole platform has been known to have incredible clinical programing and that stays in place.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Baird.

Q - David Rodgers{BIO 17980081 <GO>}
Yeah. Maybe for John Burkart. John, as you obviously grow occupancy in the SHO portfolio, you have more and more assets that are likely now -- it's kind of stabilized occupancy. Can you talk about the margins at the stabilized assets and if they've stabilized to the pre-COVID levels? And then any delay between the occupancy stabilization in margin that you are witnessing in that larger group of asset?

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yeah. Let me just give you an interesting piece of gather. One of our operators has very high occupancy in the 95s, had expenses going backwards. And so, you see some tremendous margin improvement there. The whole portfolio is going that way and no doubt it's the higher occupancy levels, as Shankh mentioned, with pushing -- able to push rent to achieve higher rent which is again then driving better margins. But on the expense side, we continue to see opportunities to improve as we go forward and move out of the situation during COVID. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, one of the situations during COVID was it was a challenge to get some maintenance done, get people into the buildings, etc., etc. So, our numbers today even reflect some elevated maintenance expenses which will be reduced over the coming quarters and again provide a stronger run-rate. So, yes, things are going very good, they are going good at all levels. As Shankh mentioned, we've maybe four buckets of assets with different levels of occupancy across-the-board and at the top occupancy assets. We're achieving fantastic margins as you get down the rung, obviously that's not the case, but we're continuing to improve occupancy and things are all looking forward. So, hopefully, that answers your question.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Dennerlein with Bank of America.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
Yeah. I appreciate all the color on ProMedica. I guess maybe one question on the senior housing side for the ProMedica. Was there any discussion of potentially moving that to another operator? Or you guys felt pretty comfortable with how they're performing?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
As Tim mentioned, those assets actually generate decent amount of profitability for them. And ProMedica that is part of ProMedica strategic obviously planed and those are, as you know, are high-margin businesses than they have been even before COVID. And we expect they will continue to come back to -- remember pre-COVID, assets on mid 80% occupancy was generating high 30% margin, right? So, I expect, as you sort of come back from the COVID and get that occupancy stabilized, frankly speaking, I will venture a guess that would be the best sort of margin part from all of ProMedica's businesses.

So, look, I mean that's where we stand today and there's no reason to believe that those assets will not, as you can see, as part of -- this recovery from these occupancy levels in the business margins are coming back. I'm not happy with where margins are today and we're seeing obviously a lot of signs of improvement that we discussed. But the margin of this business should come back to a much higher level and ProMedica should enjoy that, like everybody else in the business.

Operator
At this time, there are no further questions. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.