Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
John F. Burkart, Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer
Matthew Grant McQueen, Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Corp. Secretary
Shankh S. Mitra, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer & Director
Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Amanda Sweitzer, Baird
Connor Siversky, Berenberg
Daniel Bernstein, Capital One
Derek Johnston, Deutsche Bank
Jonathan Hughes, Raymond James
Jordan Sadler, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Joshua Dennerlein, Bank of America
Juan Sanabria, BMO Capital Markets.
Lucas Hartwich, Green Street
Michael Carroll, RBC Capital Markets
Mike Miller, JP Morgan
Nick Joseph, Citi
Nick Yulico, Scotiabank
Rich Anderson, SMBC
Steve Sakwa, Evercore ISI
Vikram Malhotra, Morgan Stanley
Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Q2 2021 Welltower Inc Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions).

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first Speaker today, Mr.Matt McQueen, General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Matthew Grant McQueen{BIO 18276475 <GO>}
Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call today may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although, Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that it's projected results will be attained. Factors that could act -- could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed the company filings with the SEC.

And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks. Shankh?

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Matt. And good morning, everyone. I hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy. Before I make some introductory comments on the state of the senior housing and on capital allocation environment, I want to welcome John Burkart, our Chief Operating Officer to this call. John joined Welltower last week after his last year's 25-year career to Essex. We believe you will make a tremendous long-term impact on our platform.

Following my remarks, as usual, team will walk you through our operating and financial results. We're cautiously optimistic on the senior housing business as occupancy is starting to build and we're encouraged by nearly 200 basis points of spot-to-spot occupancy growth in second quarter, which clearly exceeded our expectations. Momentum in US continue to be strong with lead generation returning to pre-COVID levels, resulting in a 280 basis points occupancy gain in the quarter, and the UK remain resilient despite a rise in the Delta variant cases being driven by the younger cohort. Though we are monitoring the situation closely, we have seen very little impact to the portfolio so far as UK case counts more broadly appear to be decreasing rapidly after recent spite. While Canada was a drag on occupancy, we're witnessing some greenshoots following immaterial declining in COVID cases. In fact, tours almost doubled in June from April and May in Canada as provinces have removed moving restrictions and are now permitting in-person tours.

For our overall portfolio, June was particularly impressive month with move ins exceeding 2019 level for the first time since the beginning of pandemic. I'm also encouraged that our operators were able to achieve these occupancy gains, while holding rate, reflecting the need-based nature of our asset class, and strong value proposition of this business. Year-over-year, same-store report is up 3.2% across our living properties, 2.8% across our independent living properties, and 5.3% across our Wellness housing communities. The strength in same-store FR [ph] was primarily driven by our highest end luxury product in primary Coastal Market.

Having said that, I'll caution you that there is still significant uncertainty and many unknowns related to the path of COVID and it is too early to signal an all-clear. However, we're very pleased with the progress that we're making towards achieving the substantial embedded NOI growth in our show portfolio. Last quarter, we provided details of nearly $0.5 billion of NOI upside, which assumes a return to fourth-quarter 2019 occupancy and margin levels. We're pleased to report that we not only achieved $71 million towards this total goal in one quarter, but also added another $29 million a potential upside through the second quarter acquisition and development deliveries. Going forward, we still have another $430 million of NOI upside in that business. Again, this only assumes a return to pre-COVID occupancy with potential upside from high rates and return to friction of vacancies which is mid to high single-digits.

Turning to capital allocations. Last Fall, when we have made a significant pivot from defense to offense, we made at explicit bet that consumers will return to this nutrient business. With 400 basis points of occupancy ramp in US from March troughs with healthy rates, it appears that we are on the right side of that bet. Over the past three quarters, we have deployed $4 billion of capital at extremely attractive pricing during a time when others were fearful. But we remain paranoid optimist and our humility and lack of complacency are pushing us to test our hypotheses and underwrite everything we look at with conservatism. And you can rest assured that we look at pretty much everything in our space. Therefore, we are only willing to pay a price per unit that does not require everything to go right for our owners to make a reasonable return. The second quarter was one of the best quarter seen from a capital deployment perspective having closed approximately $1.4 billion of growth investments. Q3 will likely talk Q2 and we have anticipate that it will be another record quarter of investment activity for the company.

We started Q3 with a bang and so far in July, we have already closed $230 million of gross investment and expect our previously disclosed holiday transaction to close in third quarter as well. While it is fun to talk about large transactions like holiday, which I'll get to in a minute, I want to point out that our core strategy and strength is granular transaction with their diverse group of operating partners and is supported by our data analytics platform. Our COVID class, which I define as anything we bought since starting to offense in Q4 of last year, now exceeds $4 billion of gross investment activity including holidays. Across 37 transaction with 24 unique partners, in the US, that would on average be an $16.6 million per community or $161,000 loss per unit, which we believe represents a significant discount to replacement cost. The pipeline remain very strong with many owners and operators eager to join our operator and data platform.

Let me give you some examples. First, I'm very pleased to announce that we will expand our relationship with John Moore and his team at Atria, while Lily and her team, and Holiday will join our platform. We're buying 80 nearly identical holiday independent living assets at more approachable end of senior living spectrum with an addition of six more combination, ALIL assets, for a total consideration of $1.58 billion or a $152,000 per unit. Our base instruments compelling even after our anticipated investments of $1.5 million to $2 million of CapEx by community to bring them to tomorrow standards. While the lease up of this portfolio from the compelling basis should giant a double-digit unlevered IRR. We believe there are few opportunities to enhance our return.

Number one, our underwritten rent growth is 2.5% per year despite a heavy investment in the portfolio that will improve the asset quality and marketability. Our 2026, underwritten rent remains $700 to $800 below feasibility rent to make the augment potential. Two, we have a significant expansion opportunity in 10+ assets which we expect will generate a double-digit return on invested capital. Three, the optimization of 6AL billings under a Atria platform. And four, there are at least five higher and better use opportunity. And a couple of them are so significant that they may generate enough proceeds to pay for a significant portion of the CapEx investments for the whole portfolio. If we are successful in this effort, we will have a completely renovated portfolio at roughly are going in basis which will enhance our IRR materially.

Moving front from holiday, I'd like to make few operator specific comments on this call. First, while, we continue to be encouraged by Jack Callison's leadership at Sunrise. Jack is refocusing the organization as a premier senior living brand in North America. We are excited about this focus towards strategy and have brought Sunrise in to run a recently acquired community in the Philadelphia metro area. This is our first acquisition initiative with Sunrise in several years and believe we will have many opportunities to grow together. In the UK, Sunrise platform and a portfolio will be acquired by Signature and Care UK. Signature is an existing Welltower operating partner which runs our high spend communities in the UK. We're tremendously excited to welcome Care UK to our platform, which is one of the most well-respected and largest senior living operators in the UK.

With the addition of HC1 on the value end and Care UK on the higher end, along with our existing operating partners, the bar will approach to portfolio construction that we have taken in the U.S., which is all and -- which we always aspired to be in the UK is beginning to take shape. We're very excited about Care UK's technology and management platform. We're also thrilled to welcome path for a living to Welltower's operating platform which we believe opens another avenue for growth for us. Next, I'm excited to announce our expanded partnership with Oakmont Management Group, which is one of our strongest and best operating partners. This expanded partnership with Courtney and her team is expected to result in a nearly doubling of our current portfolio together in California. We are also embarking on a long-term exclusive development program together to meaningfully expand our relationship in the next decade. Fun fact, Oakmont is our first offered in our portfolio to return to the 90% occupancy mark post-COVID. A reflection of Oakmont's operating acumen and market strength.

Finally, I'm excited to announce our new partnership with Chris Smith and his team at Aspect Health. We recap Aspect's existing MOB portfolio in Connecticut, New York, and entered into a long-term development partnership with Chris. We believe a combination of our data and operating capabilities with Aspect's relationship and development talent will create significant opportunities for growth for both the companies. We are already on our first development together, which will be a 60,000 square feet outpatient medical billing located at a very attractive market in the New York Metropolitan Area. The property will be master lease to a leading health system for 20 years, and is expected to start construction early next year.

Speaking of growth opportunities, I'm pleased to announce our continued growth with a -- organization. In the next--in the second quarter our partnership closed on the first billing of a large development development near Norman Oklahoma with Norman Regional Health System. The total development cost for Phase 1 of this multi-phase development is expected to be in excess of a $100 million, consisting of 181,000 rentable square feet of a classy operation medical facilities. Our significant MOB development pipeline which is 100% leased is now in excess of 1,00,000 million square feet and will create significant value for our shareholders in a very tight acquisition market. All of these operating and development partnership make us the foundation for our core belief that centralized capital allocation and decentralized execution releases entrepreneurial energy, while keeping costs and politics at bate.

We're very proud that we have formed 50 new operator in the development of relationships since the beginning of pandemic and we have a handful more in the works. The implication of our rapidly growing operator and the health of our platform are vast, including a network effect whereby addition of more operatives create exponentially ricked data set and thus stronger and attractive an analytics platform. This dramatically enhances the informational advantage we are already positive through our best-in-class data analytics platform, which forms the basis of our capital allocation decision. Needless to say, these relationships create foundation for our significant capital deployment opportunities as each one of them are attracted growth vehicles on their own right. These Lollapalooza effect of intertwining, operating and data platform has created a wide and increasingly deeper mode for Welltower.

As Tim will speak to you in a moment, we're very pleased with our progress to further strengthen our balance sheet and liquidity profile. More specifically, our sequential adjusted EBITDA growth of roughly $50 million indicates that we're on our way to deleverage organically as senior housing priority unfold. Overall, we're very happy with our execution so far in the year to create partial value for our shareholders. We're cautiously optimistic about the fundamental environment and excited about our opportunities states to acquire and develop talent, create new relationship, and attract quality partners, which should result outside internal and external growth for years to come. After retooling, our asset and portfolio operator, and building a formidable predictive analytics platform and talent base, and growing with conviction following two negative cycles superimposed on each other resulting from oversupply and COVID, I'm happy to say that we're emerging I think as a partner of choice, an employer of choice and an investor of choice on the other side of this pandemic.

With that, I'll pass it over to Tim. Tim?

Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will focus on our second quarter 2021 results. The performance of our investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity, and finally, our balance sheet liquidity update in addition to our outlook for the third quarter. The time where last earnings call in April 29, we were six weeks into an occupancy recovery in our Senior Housing Operating portfolio, which is seen total portfolio occupancy increase 67 basis points of March 12 loss, or an average increase of 11 basis points per week. In the 13 weeks of the followed, we've seen the occupancy recovery accelerate adding an additional 204 basis points through July 23, an average pace of 16 basis points per week. During the portfolio-wide occupancy recovery, since March 12, to 271 basis points. The recovery continues to be uneven across the portfolio with the U.S. leading in 401 basis point since March 12, followed by the UK at 275 basis points, and lastly Canada, which has seen a net decrease of 88 basis points over this time period. We believe these geographic discrepancies will normalize over time as the reopening of both Canada and the UK catch up to the U.S..

Looking forward, despite the uncertainty around the path of COVID in near term, particularly this rather than new variance, we continue to both gain evidence of the vaccines are exceptionally effective at protecting our residents and staff from this evolving virus and gain confidence that the permit demand impairment thesis that surrounded the senior housing asset class through much of the last year and a half is becoming significantly less probable.

Now, turning to the quarter. Welltower reported net income attributed to common stockholders of $0.06 per diluted share, and normalized FFO of $0.79 per diluted share. First initial guidance of $0.72 to $0.77 per share, and our June guidance update of $0.75 to $0.79 per share, which included a $5 million benefit from HHS Provider Relief funds. We ultimately recognized that $5 million benefit from HHS funds and also recognized an additional $4.9 million of reimbursement payments for similar programs in Canada and the UK. After adjusting for the impact of these funds, our normalized FFO per diluted share in the quarter is $0.77.

Now, turning to our individual portfolio components. First, our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage in occupancy stats reported a quarter in year. These statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 3, 31, 2021. Importantly, our collection rate remain high in the second quarter and reflected 95% of triple-net contractual rent during the period. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio, same-store NOI declined 2.7% year-over-year as leases that were moved to cash recognition in prior quarters continue to comp against prior year full contractual rent received, and trailing 12 months EBITDA coverage was 0.89x.

As I've stated in the past, the timing and slope of the recovery in our senior housing portfolio will dictate whether or not disruption from COVID to underlying fundamentals generates a short-term liquidity issue or solvency problem for our triple-net operators. Over the first four months of recovery, we observed occupancy and EBITDA trends within this portfolio that are in line with our US and UK operating portfolios. As this recovery trends strengthen, the solvency risk for operators has decreased in tandem and our continued strong cash rent collection in the quarter is the best that means we have this. The value of the collateral that sits behind many of our lease agreements continue to allow us to work with our operators to enhance near term liquidity without impairing the value of Welltower's real estate position.

Next, a long-term post-acute portfolio generating negative 1.1% year-over-year same-store growth and trailing 12 months EBITDA coverage was 1.29x. In the quarter, we transitioned 40 of the 51 planned genesis transition assets to new operators, including nine power back assets transitioned to ProMedica. With the remaining 11 scheduled the transition in the third quarter. 35 of these assets are expected to be disposed out in the third quarter. With the expected third quarter genesis dispositions, the $75 million sales meltac portfolio in the quarter, Welltower's percentage have been placed NOI generated from long-term post-acute segment will be reduced to 5.6% and Genesis HealthCare will represent less than the 90 basis points of total company in place NOI. Lastly, health systems, which comprised of our ProMedica senior care joint venture with a ProMedica health system. At same-store NOI growth of the positive 2.7% year-over-year, and trailing 12-month EBITDA coverage was 1.25x.

Turning to medical office. Our outpatient medical segment delivered 2.2% year-over-year same-store growth due to improved platform profitability and increased property level expense recoveries. Occupancy in our same-store portfolio in the quarter 94.8%, a 20 basis points sequential increased versus first quarter. The strong growth is driven by executed new leasing totaling a 178,000 square feet, the highest quarter since the fourth quarter 2019, and supported by 94% retention in the quarter, as consistent renewal activity was paired with reduce vacancies. Also during the quarter, we delivered one purpose-built medical office building, the commodities medical center in Brooklyn, along with two recently converted, Stanley are MOBs and Charlotte with Atrium health. These buildings totalled 449,000 square feet of fully occupied space with highly credit health systems.

Now turning to our Senior Housing Operating portfolio. Before getting into this quarter's results, I want to provide some color on the recently announced transferred of the Sunrise UK operating platform to two local operators, Signature's senior lifestyle and Care UK. We're excited to take this opportunity to deepen our local operator relationships. The Sunrise UK portfolio consists of 46 predominantly private pay properties located primarily in Southern England. The portfolio is being split largely by geographic focus. The properties located in greater London moving the Signature, a premium operator with its Welltowers' end relationship since 2012, and the rest of the properties were within the Care UK, a new number of the Welltower operating family and the fourth largest independent care home operator in the UK with the focus on the private pay market.

Turning to government grants. In the quarter, we received approximately $5 million from Department of Health and Human Services CARES act provide relief fund. As we've done in past quarters, these funds are recognized on a cash basis, and as such, will flow through financials the quarter they're received. We're normalizing HHS funds out of our same-store matrix however, along with any other government funds received that are not matched to expenses incurred in the period they're received. In the second quarter, approximately $9.3 million of reimbursements normalized out of our same-store Senior Housing Operating results.

Now, turning to results of the quarter. Year-over-year seems through NOI decreased 17.6%, as compared to 2Q 2020, driven by a 670 basis point decrease in year-over-year average occupancy. The COVID related decline in occupancy to began in March of 2020 came to a halt in mid-March of this year. And portfolio-wide occupancy increased by approximately 230 basis points from March 12 to the end of June, with a 190 basis points taking place in the second quarter. The startly occupancy recovery in the accompanying operating margin expansion has created an inflection point for bottom line results. The sequential same-store NOI increased 11.2% in the first to the second quarter. Sequential same-store revenue is up 1.8% in Q2, driven primarily by a 40 basis point increase in average occupancy and sequential monthly rev for increase of 1.3%.

With respect to expenses, total same-store expenses decreased 40 basis points sequentially and inclined 2.9% year-over-year. our focus on the sequential change, this is more relevant to trend in the current operating environment. The 40 basis point sequential decline in operating cost was driven mainly by lower COVID costs as -- remain near zero for all the second quarter after spiking meaningfully in the first quarter. Costs were also driven lower sequentially by seasonal utility costs as the Spring and early summer have lower utility costs relative to Q1. The net result is of resilient rental rates and rebounding occupancy combined with a decrease in total expenses with a sequential margin improvement in our same-store pool of a 180 basis points to 21.2%.

Looking forward to the third quarter, we're starting with July quarter-to-date data we've already observed, we've experienced the 40 basis point increase in occupancy through July 23, with the US and UK, up 60 and 30 basis points respectively, while Canada is flat. Despite the strength in the recovery so far, particularly in the US, we remain cautious not projecting acceleration in trends from the second quarter to third quarter. Given the continued lack of historical precedence with which to forecast and also uncertainty around COVID variant, despite seeing promising resilience in our UK portfolio, over the last month as a surge in the Delta variant infections amongst the general population has not been echoed amongst our resident population, there remains uncertainty. Particularly around our national and local authorities may react in coming months if the search continues for accelerates in our other geographies. On a spot basis, we're currently projecting an approximate a 190 basis points increase in occupancy from June 30 to September 30. We expect monthly rev core to be up 1% to 1.5% sequentially and up 2.5% year-over-year.

Lastly, we expect total expenses to be up 1.5% or 2% sequentially, driven by a combination of occupancy and driven labor utilization and seasonal utility costs offset slightly by continued declines in COVID cost. The net results in sequential changes will be expected to flow through margins in the mid-60s inclusive of the seasonal utility increase, and mid-70s normalizing for the seasonality of utility costs.

Turning to capital market activity. In June, we spend our existing unsecured credit facility to $4.7 billion after closing on a $4 billion unsecured revolving line of credit, which replaced our previous $3 billion revolver. Revolving facility bears interest in LIBOR plus 77.5 basis points, representing a 5 basis points improvement from pricing under our previous revolver. The facility was supported by 31 incumbent and new banks and highlights the incredible support of our banking partners. On June 28, we completed the issuance of $500 million with senior unsecured notes due January, 2029, bearing interest of 2.05%. Proceeds from the offering, we used to pay down borrowings in our revolving line of credit and a pay down to the remaining balance of our COVID term loan put in place in April, 2020.

Additionally in the quarter, we've seen this $674 million of senior unsecured notes, June 2023, using proceeds from March 25, 2021 bond issuance. Improving our weighted-average maturity across the senior unsecured to 8.2 years. We continue to enhance our balance sheet, strength and position the company to efficiently capitalize a robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to fund those near-term transactions. Having sold 20.1 million shares, just beginning at the second quarter, we afford sale agreement and the initial weighted average price of approximately $80 per share for expected gross proceeds of $1.6 billion. Since the beginning of the year, we've sold a total of 22.3 million shares of common stock to afford sale agreements, which are expected to generate a total of $1.8 billion in proceeds, of which 5 million shares were settled during the second quarter, resulting in $372 million gross proceeds. As capital deployment opportunities continue to materialize, we will look to fund those opportunities while maintaining ample liquidity and balance sheet flexibility.

We ended the second quarter 6.8x net debt to adjusted EBITDA. 6.88x when adjusting out $5 million of HHS funds received in the quarter, This HHS adjusted 2Q '21 leverage number represents a 0.25x decline in the prior quarters 7.13x debt EBITDA adjusted HHS. Last quarter, I highlighted the impact of the recovery in senior housing fundamentals would have underlying EBITDA in cash flow base leverage metrics. We are encouraged to see this trend take shape as a 15% sequential improvement in EBITDA contribution from Senior Housing Operating grow the entirety of the HHS adjusted improvement in debt EBITDA. With total portfolio occupancy sitting at 74.6% in quarter end, 12.6% below pre-COVID levels and approximately 16.6% below peak levels achieved prior to last decade supply way, we believe this stage is set for powerful EBITDA recovery. This occupancy upside is coupled of market expansion of a very depressed base.

Lastly, moving to our third quarter outlook. Last Slide, we provide an outlook for the third quarter of net income attributed to common stockholders of particular to share a $0. 44 to $0.49, and normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.78 to $0.83. This guidance is now taken into consideration any further HHS funds or similar government programs in the UK and Canada. So, when comparing it sequentially to our second quarter normalized FFO per share and be better used the as adjusted $0.70 -- $0.77 per share number, I mentioned earlier in my comments, which excludes data period benefits of those programs as well. On this comparison, the midpoint of our third quarter guidance, $80.5 per share represents a $3.5 sequential increase from 2Q. This $3.5 increase is comprised of $0.03 per share increase from our Senior Housing Operating portfolio driven by an increase in sequential average occupancy and expected reduction in COVID costs. A $0.02 per share increased from strong net investment activity highlighted by the expected closing of the Holiday senior living portfolio during the third quarter. Results and dilution from dispositions related to our previously communicated reduction exposure to genesis. And a half penny increased NOI from recently converted development, mainly two fully leased MOBs in Charlotte, North Carolina, in Brooklyn. These increases are offset by $0.01 per share increase in sequential G&A, driven mainly by new hires, and a $0.01 dilution from share settlements in the second quarter.

And with that, I will turn the call back over to Shankh.

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Tim. I want to conclude by expanding on a team that I mentioned before. We're engaged in two small transaction with two other REITs in our sector that are not material to any company that involved. For buying a handful of assets in one transaction and selling a handful of assets in other transaction, the dollar involved are too small to even mention on this call. But I bring them up, as I think they reflect a new era of collaboration amongst public REITs. Both of these transactions will result in favorable outcomes for all of our respective shareholders on a transactional basis. But what's important to focus is an emerging theme amongst public REITs, the life doesn't have to be a zero sum game.

With that, the operator will open it up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) I show our first question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Thanks so much and good morning, everyone. I guess, Shankh and Tim, the one thing that sort of surprised me was the REVPOR growth that you saw on a like-for-like basis. I think most people would have anticipated in this period of still occupancy recovering and low occupancy, there will be more discounting. So I guess just on the expense side two questions. One, did this surprise you and what drove that? And second if this REVPOR continues into kind of the next few quarters, what does that say about sort of the margin and the cash flow recovery into '22? Thanks.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Vikram, I'll try to take a stab at that. So, did it surprise us? Yes, it did. If you think about last quarter call, I said, despite all the noise of discounting and others, when I said, there are operators have a very special product and if a special value proposition that just they are not willing to discount. And -- but having said that, I didn't expect this kind of pricing strength yet, it was entirely driven by our highest and luxury product to coastal markets as I said.

Do we expect it to continue? Yes, we do. In fact, as Tim pointed out in his prepared remarks, we expect that to accelerate into Q3. And so look, I mean from the perspective of the, the stage is set, but it's very powerful recovery of margin and cash flow increase as we come through, but we're very-very excited about what's going on.

And at the same time, there's a lot of uncertainty, we're not in this for next quarter, next month. This is a long-term basis. We're excited about what we are seeing, but most importantly as Tim pointed out, we think that we're increasingly getting to a point that is really validating our belief that the business which we frankly it was, when we said this last year, around this time, that is validating our belief that the product is needed and the consumers will be back and we're seeing that.

Operator
Thank you. I show a next question comes from the line of Amanda Sweitzer from Baird. Please go ahead.

Q - Amanda Sweitzer{BIO 22726631 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. I wanted to start with a quick clarification on your occupancy guidance, but I think about your spot occupancy guidance versus your average occupancy will end up for the quarter. It looks like it might be a different set up from recent quarters and average occupancy could actually end up exceeding spot occupancy in the third quarter, that's the right way to think about it?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
That's correct, Amanda. The right way to think about is, 1Q and 2Q and the first quarter, because of the decline in occupancy we saw that lasted for 2.5 months of the quarter. We actually finished where spot occupancy was below average occupancy in 1Q. We have the opposite effect in 2Q, where the -- increased quickly in June has driven spot occupancy above average for second quarter. So, thinking about our spot occupancy guidance to 190 basis points and kind of spot basis, it equates to 210 basis points on an average change from 2Q to 3Q.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Dennerlein from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Just kind of curious to hear about your MOB pipeline and then just Aspect Health, is there are other sharp shooters out there, you'd be interested in working with?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Josh, thank you for the question. About our MOB pipeline, if you are of course asking about acquisition, that pipeline is zero. And if you're asking about our development pipeline, it's actually a million plus square feet fully leased 100% leased pipeline. We continue to believe that the pricing that we're seeing in the MOB market doesn't make any sense for a long time on our perspective. So we remain out of the market.

We did this transaction specifically, because we see a very significant growth opportunity with Chris and his team. And are we willing to partner with more sharp -- local sharpshooters, absolutely yes, but it's purely on a transactional basis. We have not a lot of interest in that space right now. We think, what we are seeing the opportunity for capital and make significant amount of return for our shareholders in the senior housing space is compelling and that's where the capital deployment opportunities in the near term will be focused on.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

Q - Steve Sakwa{BIO 1504010 <GO>}
Yeah. Thanks. Good morning. Shankh, I was just wondering, if you could talk about what your operator policies are with respect to vaccination. So there's been a lot written about healthcare workers, some not wanting to get it. And I just wonder, does this create any kind of hang up in terms of move-ins or when you're marketing asset. So, maybe just kind of provide around the horn or kind of broad update on kind of where your operator stand and whether you've seen any issues?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
No. Steve, it certainly differs across operators. I'd say, as far as the question around, hang up on move-ins, the effectiveness of the vaccine in the lack of cases we've seen, and the buildings across all three of our geographies this point has really has really prompt the marketing around the operator policies. That being said, a large majority of our -- the employees, the property level are vaccinated along with 90% -- upper 90% of our residents, so highly vaccinated and a facility environment across the board.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Yeah. Thanks. I wanted to go back to the REVPOR growth. I know that your operators have done a good job, driving modest growth even at these occupancy levels. I mean, how does this dynamic change, when occupancy gets back to the high 80% range? I guess, I'm trying to understand, how much does this rate grows vary, I mean, our changes generally more muted both on the downside or upside, or can we expect the total portfolio to generate significantly stronger REVPOR growth once occupancy comes back to stabilization

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. Mike. That's a very, very good question. Now you're asking me to speculate. So I will speculate, but it's a just speculation on the less, but if you think about the occupancy as we get back sort of, to the more stabilized occupancy level, you just call it, high 80%. I think you will see significant pricing power even above what you have seen sort of this quarter, -- this, particular quarter.

Let me remind you, through the supply cycle sort of call it from 15 to 19, when an occupancy has gone down. We have still raised rates above 4% right? In face of a supply cycle, which I expect, the setup is completely different, this cycle of this decade forward where you have better demand and probably in a better environment for supply as well. So is it -- should we see one stabilization happens greater pricing power, we absolutely should, but it remains to be seen.

As I will tell you, one of the things that we interestingly watch is that, very tight correlation of housing price appreciation and pricing power in senior housing industry. And, we have seen significant increase on -- record household sort of wealth growth and that hasn't really translated so far into senior housing pricing. We are probably starting to see some of that this quarter, but it will come though. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson from SMBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. So, when you take into account the embedded NOI that you go through in the deck and you hold everything else constant, your kind of 50% shop and 20% senior housing adjusted for all of that. I know, that's not absolutely precision, but you're clearly focused on the senior housing business. And I know your thesis is always been, your IRR investors and you think more about that than certain asset classes. But, you are the REIT -- senior housing REIT relative to your peers like it or not, at least for now.

I'm curious as you are underwriting deals and kind of tethering yourself to the business. What are you thinking about in terms of the next supply cycle? We've seen that to be the risk for this business in the past, lumber prices are coming back down. I'm wondering, how you are underwriting the future for supply and how you're making sense of the growth in this side of the business?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Rich. That's a very, very good question. So we continue to believe, as I said before, that you will see some supply, but you will not see this cycle, we believe that supply will face demand instead of demand facing supply like you have seen last decade. If we see no supply, we have bigger issues, right? That says that we're the only people who actually see the business everybody else missing. That's not how it is going to happen.

But I wouldn't react to short-term high frequency data on these things, because these data is obviously comes with a lot of errors and noises, the similar types of data that you have in supply would have told you that occupancy for us for the quarter will be down with negative pricing, that clearly didn't happen. So I wouldn't react too much to this high frequency data from one or two providers.

I will tell you that forget about what others are doing. We are looking at a lot of development and they're very, very hard to pencil. They are very hard to pencil, given feasibility rent remains between 20% and 30% below depending on different markets. And that's just a question of how much rents have, sort of, cost has gone down -- cost has gone up and a high-frequency indicator like lumber price on your Bloomberg screen doesn't tell you that it has changed significantly.

You got to look at our long-term average and people's ownership of that, they are sitting in the warehouse that it hasn't shown up yet. Will it show up? Probably it will show up at some point, but that's -- at the same time, we're seeing a lot of other products cost is going up. The country is significantly undersupplied on overall housing and you will see housing starts will continue to go up with the demand of the different materials. So, I think, a lot of lessons have been learned on the bank side, losing a lot of money on the space, lot of equity has lost a lot of money. Clearly, you can see where we're buying product, new products at significantly below replacement cost and the gap between where we are buying call it $0.60 on the dollar and the hundred cent [ph] is somebody lost a lot of money, right?

And so, it was obviously, these lessons will be remembered in the near term as the demographic catch on. But we are very much aware of what you are saying, this is why we're so focused on price per unit. And that's why I made the point, I made during my prepared remarks, that were not willing to buy anything and everything, even if we think it's a decent deal, because in many cases a lot of these things as a long-term investor in the space, a lot of these things need to go right over a period of time for us, our shareholders to make money and that's not that kind of investment I do make.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Hughes from Raymond James. Please, go ahead.

Q - Jonathan Hughes{BIO 19065362 <GO>}
Hey. Good morning. I do agree with Rich, you are the seniors housing REIT. But I want to ask about the health system portfolio and what happened to EBITDAR coverage there, I see it's one in a quarter turns now from 1.9 last quarter? And then could you also maybe talk about exposure to operators at less than 1 times EBITDAR coverage, without naming names, are there any ongoing discussions with operators for the rent deferrals or transitions across your triple net segments? Thank you.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Jonathan. So first is the coverage came down for obvious reasons, right? You are still remember, the NOI has dropped last quarter, it's still coming down, right? From an trailing four quarter basis, how you report coverage, which means the better quarters are getting out of numbers and worst quarters are getting in the numbers. Due -- mostly speaking, in a normalized, in a stabilized environment coverage should give you the state of the business.

At inflection points like this, where you got sharp decrease and sharp increases. It will not give you the state of the business, that just like our other operators that you are seeing in shop part of the portfolio, the fundamentals have troughed last quarter and it's actually getting better. So for example, let's just talk about ProMedica, I don't want to get into this because frankly speaking, for our investors ProMedica covenants is a irrelevant metric, because as I have told you before that ProMedica rent is guaranteed by the -- by the health system, the mother ship at the top end, right? So it's really is an irrelevant metric for our investors.

However, having said that, let me make some observations about that topic. The revenue, if you think about versus second quarter was the highest in actually for ProMedica for that specific business or ManorCare was the highest in last five quarters. They have seen significant increase sequential increase in occupancy, just this quarter above 400 basis points in that skilled nursing business. And what is going on, is they're are in mid-log [ph] as we and ManorCare are in middle of selling a bunch of assets, right? And those assets base is going through -- it has a negative EBITDA, as I talked about before, when we announced the deal and that's still flowing to the number as creating significant noise on the number side. So that is absolutely is sort of going to create a lot of issues and also on the same side, you are seeing we added nine PowerBack building that is getting integrated. So we have a lot of noise.

I will tell you let's take a step back and think about where the business is trending. Business as I said, they are second quarter revenue was the highest actually in last five quarters. Business is getting better. ProMedica team, Senior Care team is doing exactly what we laid it out that they will happen, which is creating new partnership with different system. We announced it -- they announced a new partnership, MetroHealth in Cleveland. There's another one, they signed a joint venture which I'm not the liberty at naming name, right at this point, a premier system across the country businesses moving forward.

But as far as, once our shareholders are concerned that trend is guaranteed by the mother ship, which obviously is a very significant system with $2 plus billion of the cash and material in a $7 billion of revenue, so I don't want to get into that conversation. Remember, at this point in junction, just not just talking about ProMedica, but any triple net leases will not reflect the state of the business, because of the fourth quarter trailing nature of how we report cognitive.

From a standpoint of your second question, I think Tim touched on it. I will still say again, we have told you before that we believe that our leases are backed by material amount of credit and assets that we own in joint venture and other assets owned by the operators. We do not believe there will be significant disruption of earnings and cash flow coming out of that. And our belief that statement is getting stronger and stronger every day, that's how much I'm willing to talk about any specific operator at this call. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Mike Miller from JP Morgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Mike Miller{BIO 19988296 <GO>}
Hi. My question was just answered. Thanks.

Operator
Thank you, sir. I show our next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi. Thanks for the time. Just curious on the acquisition pipeline, you guys have done a tremendous amount of work and heavy lifting and kudos to you, but the markets are always about what comes next? So just curious on your views of what's in the pipeline going forward and how long do you think you can take advantage of this COVID discussion? And for the deals that you're striking now, how should we think about when those were negotiated? And I'm not sure, you could talk to holiday or more broadly about when those deals were really struck versus just to think about the run rate for future discounted replacement cost opportunities?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Juan. I completely agree with you, it's about what comes next? That's the point, I was trying to make on the coverage metrics, right? It's the state of what's happening now and what's happening next, not what happened yesterday. Having said that, I'll tell you, it's important to understand when we talk about acquisition, unlike many companies, we don't talk about what under contract unless it is a very large transaction that shareholder should know about. Holiday's is a very good example. So the $4 billion are still of COVID class is transactions which we have closed. We could have given you a significantly higher number of the transaction we have shaken our hands on.

So pipeline, I know, you understand that, but I wanted to make a very concerted effort to make that point again because it's very different from how most other companies report their numbers. So, the pipeline, let's just talk about pipeline, which is where we have shaken hands. We have agreed on a transaction and it's just going through the process. Real estate transactions take long time to close as you know. We're pretty quick with -- quicker than probably most other organizations that you will meet, but we're also extremely thorough, right? It takes time. We visit every property that we buy. So it takes time.

So let's just talk about that pipeline, which we define as something that's under contract, that's visible, that is significant and it's under contract. So we feel very, very good about continued momentum on the acquisition side. Let's talk about the shadow pipeline, which, I define as something that we are negotiating right now, that is also significant and visible. And I think you will see continued acquisition at very, very favorable price.

As I said before -- going forward, as I said before, we're driven by value of acquisition, not volume of it, right? So as long as we can create value we will continue to occur and if we see that market prices have moved to a place where it doesn't make sense, we will not. And it could be a late service, but you can look at our history and you will see that we have exactly done that. We have moved with market pricing and if market pricing and got into a place where we think it doesn't make sense, we sold out this.

So, near term, we see tremendous amount of opportunities by this -- all this disruption in the market and we're seeing tremendous opportunity because there are several operators and developers want to join our platform to access the data that we talked about for several quarters on this call. So sum it all together. I'm very, very optimistic about capital deployment opportunities at very attractive price in coming quarters.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Nick Joseph from Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Joseph{BIO 16891718 <GO>}
Thanks. Are you seeing any of your operators take additional pre-emptive measures with a Delta variant? And then are you seeing any recent changes to state of local restrictions?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Hey, Nick. Good question. We have not seen significant changes in the state level restrictions. And my comments in this script for more towards kind of the uncertainty around that going forward, there is obviously a lot of noise around kind of where things may change and where they've been in the last -- in most recent months.

In the operator front, our operators never -- you think about suddenly a mask mandate, our operators never left the mask mandate. So you think about just the general facility and the way that they've been being run, there has not, -- likely will not be much of the change depending on obviously the past the virus, but to kind of what's going on in the general public last few months because the operators continued to run a very safe stringent environment when it comes to COVID.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Jordan Sadler{BIO 15075677 <GO>}
Thanks and good morning, guys. So Shankh, I want to come back to, your comment on moving swiftly. I know it's early and the pandemic is not over, but your bet on seniors housing seems to be playing out better than expected, with occupancy improvements accelerating and now REVPOR growth coming through, how is this impacting your underwriting of new investments? And even on the asset management side of the portfolio, how is it impacting your thinking?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Jordan. Look, I mean, when we made last year this bet. For example, I'll tell you this is exactly a year, one year mark, when we first have started this discussion with Oakmont how to grow this business significantly as a partnership, yesterday marked exactly one year. The times are scary, right? I mean, there's no question about it occupancy was falling like a rock, EBITDA obviously was going down, materially given on the high operating leverage in the business, but we had unwavering belief that the product is needed and the consumers will return, right? That doesn't mean that we knew for sure that will happen, that's the best we made and that myth actually made sense on a risk-adjusted basis and we talked about that over the last four calls.

And I am very pleased that as you recognized that bet seems to be playing out. So, how is it changing? Look at the end of the day, if you -- you have to think about real estate is a game of basis, right? No matter how good the environment is or how bad the environment is, there's a floor and ceiling on value depending on what it costs to build. So we are not going out to say, its all clear, I think that's fantastic. Let's just, pay prices that are evolved replacement cost and acquire as much as it because we can because we have a cost of capital, that is not how we run this place.

Cost -- just we have a cost of capital, our owners have given us a cost of capital, our bond holders have given us the cost of capital, so that we can accrue value to our owners. Not because we want to accrue value to the sellers. And that is how we have always run this place and that is, how will always run this place. There is no doubt of opportunity. We're not significantly changing our underwriting. And frankly speaking, we're a basis investor and IRR investor.

So you might say, okay, you're -- long-term depending [ph] IRR or 15 year IRR really hasn't changed. Has your near term growth rates have changed? Yes, it has. But that doesn't translate into higher prices because we are still solving for the same IRR. And we're still really focused on what the price per unit, price per foot is. Hopefully, that helps you to get a glimpse of how we underwrite.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Nick Yulico from Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Thanks. Just going back to the Senior Housing guidance for the third quarter, Tim, I know you talked about this earlier that, it's a little bit hard to predict an acceleration, but I guess, I'm wondering, how much did the July numbers sort of impact guidance, right? Because your -- I think you said you're up 40 basis points so far in July as of last week.

And I guess, I'm just wondering is that sort of running a little bit slower than June at the end of the day. June was a very strong month. So I guess we're just trying to figure out kind of the sequential movement on occupancy here, which was strong in June, and then July feels like it's slowed down a little bit. Maybe you're putting in some conservatism about delta varying, et cetera. Maybe just, you can unpack that a little bit?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Thanks Nick. That's a great question. And thinking about that relative to, you look at the second quarter, as you pointed out, June was a very strong month. What we've seen coming into July is actually very consistent on indicators like leads and interest in all of the kind of leading indicators that were strongly in June that continued in July. The biggest difference at this point look at it July 4th, holiday was a very low moving week, which is not surprising to us.

Looking at June, so up 40 were a bit more than 40, relative or -- sorry in July, we're a bit more than 40 month a date. At this point in July, we were mid-50s. So we called 10 plus basis points behind kind of where we were in June. And we're 10 basis points to 15 basis points ahead of where we were in April and May. So, we're continuing to see this improvement on a trend in basis. We're trying not to read too much into kind of the micro trends. So I don't think July start really plays a role in our conservatism.

I think you mentioned at the end uncertainty around Delta Variant and as I said in my script inability necessarily forecast given still unprecedented nature of the backdrop, drive a little bit of our view and how we give the guidance there, but doesn't have as much to do with the start in July.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Lucas Hartwich from Green Street. Please go ahead.

Q - Lucas Hartwich
Thanks, I have a question for John. I know you just joined the company, but I'm curious what your key priorities are out of the gate?

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you. Its day 10, so my key priority is to seek first to understand aspect of things very excited to be here, but those who know me know, I don't give out my playbook so I'm definitely not doing that, but very excited to see a lot a lot of opportunity amazing people here. Shankh is obviously amazing and that's as much as I'm going to give you today.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Derek Johnston from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Good morning, everyone. The fact to the capital deployment front, are you changing or getting creative with the mix specifically and show, how are you viewing independent living versus assisted living opportunities? And how do the valuations vary in the private markets for each segment or versus replacement costs today? And of course, WELL's appetite for each?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
We are actually not changing the criteria. It is usually the replacement cost of assisted living for like-for-like location is higher sometimes significantly higher, but we always invest capital relative to what the replacement cost is. IRR targets are not different. I will tell you that we have a general propensity to go with a micro market with a strong operator, who have a strong hold on a product type.

Going forward, as you think about, I said this before, our portfolio has a barbell approach. We want to be at a high price point, high service areas, high service products in great barriers to high barriers to entry market or we want to be on the lower sort of approachable end of lower price point, low service, right? That's kind of what the -- our barbell approach is, and we have not changed that.

So there is a lot of creativity in the shop, but usually that's not around just a product selection that's around where you want to play in the capital structure, high (inaudible) structure transaction that is not just one transaction and it done. For example, we like to build it, with growth vehicles that will continue to talk about. This quarter, we talked about Oakmont and Aspect. But as you can see, go back and look at five quarters ago and six quarters ago, we would probably talked about (inaudible) organization. And you see, this quarter, we start a $100 million plus of MOB, right?

So our job is not only to see, okay, where can we get sort of the play, state of play right now, which is the deep value end of the play. But also create this growth vehicles, that creates the, changes the growth rate through the cycle, right? That's what we are focused on. And I'll be honest with you Derek, I'm very, very proud of this team that has created. I think this company will have unprecedented growth that will be unmatched in its history. And I think it is relatively understood the cyclical sort of balance of that, but I think it is a fairly, fairly misunderstood on what the cycle can look like.

Operator
Thank you. I show our next question comes from the line of Connor Siversky from Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Connor Siversky{BIO 20721733 <GO>}
Good morning, everybody. Thanks for having me. Great quarter. A bit of an abstract question maybe, so operating under the assumption that the target demographic for Seniors has a lot of net worth tied up in home equity. If we were to potentially see a blip in the housing market as prices may become off peaks, could that translate to some kind of transitory impacts on rate or REVPOR, where do you think that the demand environment currently is strong enough to offset that kind of dynamic?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
If you believe that, that housing prices can come down 50%, which I think is how much it's up last few years, right, three, four years and many, many places. Then, yes, but also remember that you are talking about people who have bought their houses in the 80s and 90s right. They're sitting on significant amount of household sort of network, that should not impact. I will give you -- go back and look at how assisted living has done, Senior Housing in general has done in the -- during the global financial crisis where you've got a massive crash of housing prices and see how the asset class has done.

Just as a hint, I think that was -- senior housing was one of the best performing asset class through the global financial crisis, through that housing bust. So that should give you some hint. I'm a student of history, every cycle is different. I'm not going to sit here and pontificate how much did not play out. But I will tell you that housing has an impact on many aspects of the economy and it has a particular impact because Senior Housing is not an income play and asset play and mostly it is an housing type of an asset play. But remember, who is your customer, it's an 85 year old and she's sitting on a house that probably she bought in 1988.

Operator
Thank you. I show our last question comes from the line of Daniel Bernstein from Capital One. Please go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bernstein{BIO 17544174 <GO>}
Good morning. I guess this one to see, if we can drill down a little bit into the Canadian asset leading indicators, I mean that has trailed a little bit and your numbers would have been even better than getting posted, if Canada have been performed. So just want to see if we can drill down a little bit on, what's going on with the tours, leads some of those leading indicators on the Canadian Senior Housing?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay. Dan, I've mentioned this on my prepared remarks, April or May, we have seen that drag that you're talking about really possible is it out in June. We've seen almost doubling up in person towards et cetera in June. Canada by and large opened up significantly in the beginning of July. So we are seeing that is starting to reflect and we expect that Canada will catch up, right? So sort of it's a draft today, but I would expect that you will see some significant sequential improvement in Canada, as we get through the rest of the year.

Tim, you want to add anything?

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Yes. Dan. In July, Shankh mentioned towards interest we've seen actually tours and inquiries reached 2019 levels. So if we look at how the recovery occurred in the U.S., there was a month lag before between, let me kind of saw that start to happen in February and February when we started to see occupancy turn. So not saying it'll follow the same pattern, but we've seen first kind of flattening of the decrease in occupancy and then we've seen these leading indicators move. So we're certainly hopeful that we'll start to see those fundamental turn here in the third quarter.

Operator
Thank you. This concludes our Q&A session and today's conference call. Thank you all for participating. You may now all disconnect. Everyone have a good day.