Q3 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
John F. Burkart, Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer
Matthew Grant McQueen, Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Shankh S. Mitra, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer & Director
Timothy G. McHugh, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Amanda Sweitzer, Robert W. Baird & Co.
Analyst
Derek Johnston, Deutsche Bank
Jordan Sadler, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc
Juan Sanabria, BMO Capital Markets
Michael Carroll, RBC Capital Markets
Mike Mueller, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Nicholas Yulico, Scotiabank
Nick Joseph, Citi
Rich Anderson, SMBC Nikko Securities
Richard Hill, Morgan Stanley
Steve Sakwa, Evercore ISI
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q3 2021 Welltower Inc Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to hand the conference over to Matt McQueen, General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Matthew Grant McQueen{BIO 18276475 <GO>}
Thank you, and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that its projected results will be attained.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shank for his remarks.

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Matt, and good morning, everyone. I hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy. I'll walk you through our high-level business trends and capital allocation priorities. John Burkart, our COO, will walk you through the detailed operating environment in SHO and MOBs.

Tim will walk you through the triple net businesses, earnings guidance and capitalization. This is John's first call as he's beginning to dig into the business. So please go easy on him. Despite mediocre bottom line results, we cannot be happier with the overall results of the quarter. Just 6 months ago, many industry participants and observers were cautioning if the COVID pandemic would result in apartment impairment of demand for senior housing.

And even most people who believe that the demand would come back were worried that with every surge of the virus, the business will take a significant step back. As it has been our experience that these surges drive revenue down, cost up, resulting in a significant hit to the bottom line. For the first time since the beginning of pandemic, we bought this trend. And despite witnessing a significant search of the Delta variant after we spoke three months ago, we still posted the strongest sequential revenue growth in the company's history.

Occupancy went up 210 basis points in the quarter relative to our guidance of 190 basis points free delta, and rate growth accelerated, resulting in a 3.5% sequential increase in top line revenue across our same-store shop portfolio.

Importantly, year-over-year revenue growth inflected positively in the U.S. and U.K. portfolio for the first time since the beginning of pandemic. This trend accelerated into September when we observed a year-over-year revenue increase for the Intacta portfolio led by U.S. and U.K., which reported a year-over-year revenue growth over 2%.

This is particularly impressive in context of a massive delta surge. Let's reflect on why that might be the case. With nearly all resident vaccinated and staff vaccination rates approaching 90%, which is substantially higher than general population, prospective residents and their families recognized that our communities are much safer environment than alternative settings.

You can see that in our data. In the U.S., despite a tenfold increase in the daily case counts across U.S. in July and August, the number of cases within our SHO portfolio was just 10% of peak levels observed during the prior COVID surges. A similar trend was experienced across our Canadian and U.K. portfolios for -- over the same time.

This helped us build significant top line momentum in our business as we received the dual benefit of occupancy and rate growth, which we believe will continue into next year. In fact, I believe this trend will meaningfully accelerate into next year as we feel significant momentum in the rate environment. Despite this great top line performance, our bottom line performance was mediocre and impacted by a perfect storm across the expense stack. We had a confluence of extraordinary costs, including agency labor as COVID surged, heightened R&M, insurance costs, utility costs and other sundry costs all hitting at the same time.

There was also an extra day in the quarter, which resulted in a mismatch of revenue and expenses as the majority of our operators charge rent on a monthly basis. Additionally, we saw a meaningful rise in paid time off as many employees took advantage of the easing travel restriction during the summer.

The rise of COVID also resulted additional call-offs from our team members at the last minute, which drove a significant spike in the use of agency liver, which cost two to three times. This situation was further complicated by the vaccination mandate, which the system is currently working through. The only good news on the expense overall is that we began to see this situation normalize in October. While it is too early to comment on exactly how long it will take for this situation to fully normalize, we need to unpack what logically will stay with us in the medium to long term and what will dissipate.

In our opinion, base wage increases are sticky and they will likely to be here as unit cost of labor. We firmly believe Welltower's operating partners will be able to overcome this hurdle through rent increases as they offer a premium product within a premium micro market.

The alternative of one-on-one care just got significantly more expensive. We are beginning to see the green shoots emerge as operating partners have been -- have seen expansion of labor pool with supplemental unemployment benefits rolling off and children having gone back to school.

John will provide more details on this topic, but we believe the usage of agency liver will dissipate going forward. Our guidance for Q4 will suggest that we do not expect this situation to completely reverse, primarily because of three factors: One, we have a mismatch of revenue growth and expense growth as a significant portion of our annual increases happen on Jan 1. Two, after you hire people, it takes an extended period of time to go through preemployment and training process before new employees can hit the floor. And three, Delta wave, which peaked in late September is still with us even in November.

However, none of this has changed my view that Welltower stabilized shop margin post COVID will be higher than that of pre-Covid margins. Even on a near-term basis, I do not believe the earnings power of this portfolio's 2022 exit run rate or 2023 run that has changed. I want to repeat that one more time.

Even on a near-term basis, I don't believe the earnings power of this portfolio's 2022 exit run rate or 2023 run rate has changed. The based operators will rise from this difficult time stronger with significant higher market share, while many others will find this business too hard to figure out.

We are engaged in, frankly, starkly different conversation with the management team of operators in this industry more broadly. While everyone is fatigued from the events of the past 18 months, many of our partners are working with John to rethink how technology, operational excellence, revenue optimization and data analytics can fundamentally change this business. Think of some very basic question. Unit labor is going up, but how many units do we need? Price needs to go up, but how do you differentiate price on units with a view of Central Park versus a brick wall?

Many operators within the industry are hoping things will get better on their own. Unfortunately, hope is not a great strategy. Our intense operational focus translates directly into our capital allocation strategy. Let me restate what that is. We want to own the right assets in the right micro market with the right operator focused on right acuity and price point, and we want to own that asset at the right basis, either will buy at a discount or replacement cost or will build at an extremely targeted way at replacement cost.

While bidding tents are pretty thin primarily with a few first time or relatively new capital, we remain extraordinarily active in off-market, privately negotiated transactions where we bring unmet certainty to close with operator and cash capital.

As most of the situation are debt maturity driven ; nothing is more important to the seller than the certainty of close with a firm handshake. And as you know, our reputation is we don't negotiate and we don't reiterate after we have a form and shape. This approach has resulted in one of the most active quarter in the history of our company.

We closed $2 billion of investments at a significant discount to replacement cost with expected IRRs in the high single digits to low double digits. We continued our momentum subsequent to the end of third quarter with another $1.3 billion transaction that we have signed purchase and sale agreement and that we have described in our press release.

While they are all very important transaction, let me highlight 3 different flavors of the deal. We are excited about a $580 million transaction to buy eight rental and six entrance fee communities in great micro markets. We would recall that we bought a handful of Sunrise CCRCs from SNH in 2018.

This transaction is very similar in asset quality and location standpoint, but at a materially better price. And the previous owner has spent significant amount of capital, over $50 million in the last 5 years. We should be able to achieve a high single-digit, unlevered IRR as our operating partner, watermark leases up the communities.

However, we think we can push this return into double-digit unlevered category as we execute a higher and better use strategy similar to what we have -- where we're embarking on our 85 Atria portfolio, 85 property Atria portfolio.

For example, there is an extraordinary piece of land in a highly desirable residential corridor, Bellevue, Washington, that is entitled for high-density residential as of right. We can build a great vertical campus of senior or wellness living there or sell it to a multifamily developer.

For many of these communities, their excess land, while we intend to build additional cartage style units which are already sold out in this location and get the flavor. In a separate transaction, we bought five Class A senior housing communities in Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic region with an extraordinary partner -- with a extraordinary operator and development group for $172 million.

The average age of these communities is three years, and we expect to generate a high single-digit unlevered IRR. We also negotiated a long-term exclusive development contract with this team. I cannot wait to disclose the details of this group and our growth plan with them on our next call. But here's the teaser. This team has executed flawlessly, even during this challenging Q3 without any agency labor.

That gives you a sense of their operating prowess. In a similar vein to new buildings, we bought three brand-new communities in the Midwest from a multifamily developer with new perspective, our existing operator.

On average, these buildings are two years old. We feel our future pipeline is robust as we are on a two-year line with several other granular transactions. We are also building significant momentum around redevelopment and real estate value add as John Burkart has executed a strategy at FX for over two decades.

My team historically has focused on operator-oriented value-add as we frankly didn't have the right experience after somewhat underwhelming experience from our vintage transaction many years ago. Now with John and Mike Fey, our Global Head of Development in one team, redevelopment and real estate value add will be another avenue for growth going forward. Stay tuned for more.

On the relationship side, I cannot be more pleased to announce that we started two new development projects with Cisco, the second phase of Cardinal and Carnegie. Cisco is one of our best operators in our portfolio, occupancy incredibly bouncing already back to high 90s. I cannot be more proud to be partnering with Andy Colberg and his team to find a few more A++ micro markets where a cardinal model will be fantastically successful.

We signed a long-term exclusive development contract with Cisco and look forward to grow this partnership over the next decade. From the success of this wonderful new addition to the exclusive pipeline agreements quarter-after-quarter, I hope that you, as our investors, now share the same belief that we truly have built a deep and wide mode around the real estate business through predictive analytics platform that is unique and unprecedented in the real estate industry. With that, I'll pass it on to John for a deep dive in operational trends. John?

John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you, Shank. My comments today will focus on the performance of our outpatient medical and seniors housing operating portfolio. Starting with our outpatient medical. During the third quarter, our outpatient medical segment delivered 3.1% same-store revenue growth over the prior year's quarter leading to same-store NOI growth of 3.4%.

The increases were driven by increased property level expense recovery and a reduction in bad debt. Occupancy in our same-store portfolio ended the quarter at 94.7% a 30 basis point reduction from the prior year's quarter.

We continue to see record retention rates with the third quarter exceeding 90%. And with increasing construction costs and rising market rates, we will continue to push renewal rates and accept a reasonable level of increased turnover and related frictional vacancy as we strive to optimize top and bottom line performance and maximize the value of the portfolio.

Now turning to our senior housing operating portfolio. I'm pleased to report that year-over-year revenue growth in our SHO portfolio turned positive in September, marking the first monthly increase since the onset of COVID-19. The strong demand-based recovery in seniors housing was led by our U.S. portfolio, which year-over-year revenue turned positive in August and our U.K. portfolio, which turned positive in September.

The occupancy recovery, an improvement in RevPAR, which began in Q1 reflect the need-based nature of senior housing and a recognition that these communities are active, safe and social, 3 key elements to quality senior living. The U.S. continues to lead the recovery, growing occupancy 600 basis points from the trough in mid-March through September 30, followed by the U.K. at 540 basis points.

Our Canadian portfolio remains behind the U.S. and U.K. in the recovery, but posted an occupancy gain of 70 basis points in the third quarter compared to a decline in Q2. While the Delta variant has impacted staffing and related costs, it has clearly not slowed to the demand-driven recovery in occupancy and our operators' ability to drive rate growth. Year-over-year same-store NOI for the SHO portfolio decreased 14.9% as compared to Q3 2020, driven by a 200 basis point decrease in average occupancy and increased expenses in part due to the Delta spike and related impact on staffing.

While still down versus last year, same-store NOI has improved markedly from the decline of 44% in the first quarter, a trend which should continue going forward. The increased labor costs during the quarter were driven by a host of macro factors, which led to temporary labor shortages affecting virtually all industries.

The result was increased compensation in the form of wages, overtime bonuses and the use of agency labor as our operators have been squarely focused on both meeting the increased demand for their active safe and social communities and a refusal to compromise on the quality of care. The use of agency labor, which can be two to three times more expensive than permanent employees was particularly impactful during the quarter as employees who had COVID were exposed to COVID or even had a cold -- had to call in sick, leaving agency staffing as the only option.

As Shank alluded to, these extraordinary labor expenses are starting to abate although I expect we will still see some continued pressure for several months. I'm hearing green shoots as our operators are making comments such as the peak labor challenge has passed, or we've seen a substantial pickup in applications, our new hires outnumber the employees leaving 2.5:1.

And even we are currently fully staffed at almost all of our communities. Going forward, obviously, I don't know how COVID will impact the economy, but we do know that the operators are increasing their rates substantially to cover the increased labor costs. Similar to the multifamily business, there can be timing issues or delay between expenses hitting the bottom line when the revenue flows through to the bottom line.

We are seeing that right now with elevated maintenance expense, which in part relates to preparing units for occupancy due to increasing demand. Additionally, rental rates and care service reimbursements are typically adjusted annually and require 60 to 90 days notice similar to multifamily. Therefore, we continue to move forward -- therefore, as we continue to move forward in this demand-driven recovery, we expect to see the impact from these rate increases in 2022.

Additionally, despite similar occupancy improvement across all states, which withdrew early from the -- additionally, despite a similar occupancy improvement across all states, we've seen a divergence in the impact of agency expense between states, which we grew early from the federal unemployment programs versus those which maintain supplemental benefits through the early September.

More specifically, states opting out of these programs early saw roughly 2/3 of the incremental sequential increase in agency expense as compared to those states which maintained supplemental benefits. Finally, during the last 90 days, I've been fully immersed in the various aspects of Welltower's senior housing business, including volunteering at sites, meeting with the leadership of various operators and, of course, touring numerous properties. My experience has been consistent with my expectations, and that has found that the operators deliver a very high level of care to our residents and provide a top quality living experience.

While the focus on care has been and continues to be very high, I believe that similar to the multifamily industry 20 to 30 years ago, there was an opportunity to modernize our senior housing business and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the operations. These efforts will further improve the resident experience, employee engagement and the financial performance of these communities, including the potential for significant margin expansion.

Without giving away my entire playbook, renovating and reamenitizing certain communities, implementing revenue management across the portfolio and engaging in a digital transformation are just a few examples of what I'm thinking about. Being at the beginning of this coming demographic demand wave and see an array of growth and optimization opportunities across all our businesses make this a very exciting time to be at Welltower. Now I'll turn the call over to Tim.

Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our third quarter 2021 results. The performance of our triple net investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity and finally, a balance sheet and liquidity update in addition to our outlook for the fourth quarter. Welltower reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.42 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.80 per diluted share, versus guidance of $0.78 to $0.83 per share.

Turning to our triple net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats are reported a quarter in arrears. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 6/30, 2021. Importantly, our collection rate remained high in the third quarter. having collected 92% of triple-net contractual rent during the period across our senior housing triple net and long-term post-acute portfolios. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio, same-store NOI declined 80 basis points year-over-year as a negative year-over-year impact of leases moving to cash recognition began to dissipate.

We expect same-store NOI growth to turn positive next quarter. Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.83 times. Looking forward, we expect coverage at the bottom next quarter near current coverage levels before starting the recovery in Q1. Over the first seven months of the recovery, we've observed occupancy and EBITDAR trends within our senior housing triple net portfolio that are in line with our U.S. and U.K. operating portfolios. As these recovery trends have strengthened, the solvency risk for our operators has decreased in tandem.

And our continued strong cash rent collection, along with the value of the collateral that sits behind many of our lease agreements, continues to provide us confidence that Welltower's real estate position remains strong. Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 1% year-over-year same-store growth and trailing 12-month EBITDA coverage of 1.25 times.

In the quarter, we transitioned 11 more Genesis assets to new operators, bringing total year-to-date Genesis transitions to 48 properties. We also completed the disposition of 21 of these transition assets, bringing total year-to-date dispositions to 30 former Genesis assets, including our nine PowerBack assets sold in the ProMedica joint venture in the second quarter, with another 14 scheduled for disposition in the coming months.

Long-term post-acute in-place NOI concentration is now 5.4% of total portfolio in-place NOI. And lastly, health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with the ProMedica Health system. We had same-store NOI growth of positive 2.8% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.24 times.

The drop in sequential coverage was driven largely by the timing of HHS stimulus as the majority of HHS revenue received by ProMedica was received in 2Q '20, and this was not repeated in 2Q '21. X HHS funds 2Q '21 EBITDA was up relative to 2Q '20

as revenues grew both on a year-over-year and sequential basis.

Our June trailing 12-month coverage also includes results of the previously announced sale of 25 assets held by the joint venture, 21 of which have already been sold to date, with the remaining 4 are expected to be completed in the coming months. These assets have contributed more than $30 million in negative EBITDA for the trailing 12 months period ending 6/30 2021.

And thus, their disposal alone will create considerable coverage accretion on a go-forward basis. I'd also like to remind everyone that our lease is fully backed by a senior claim and the substantial real estate value held in the joint venture and also the full corporate guarantee of the ProMedica Health system.

Turning to capital market activity. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to efficiently capitalize a robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to fund those near-term transactions.

Since the beginning of the third quarter, we have sold 11.5 million shares via forward sale agreement, an initial weighted average price of approximately $84.36 per share for expected gross proceeds of $966 million. Since the beginning of the year, we have sold a total of 29.5 million shares of common stock via forward sale agreements, which are expected to generate total proceeds of $2.4 billion, of which 12.7 million shares were settled during the third quarter resulting in $1 billion of gross proceeds.

As of the end of the quarter, we had approximately 11.8 million shares remaining unsettled, which are expected to generate future proceeds of $1 billion. Rent in the second quarter at 6.97 times net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA, up slightly from an HHS adjusted 6.8 times at the end of the last quarter. The uptick in leverage was a product of $1.7 billion of net investment activity completed in the quarter.

If we run rate the impact of the investment activity completed in the quarter, pro forma net debt to EBITDA decreased to 6.82 times. As a reminder, we ended the quarter with approximately $1 million one-sale equity raised on a forward basis, along with $309 million expected disposition proceeds and loan payoffs.

Our efforts to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our liquidity profile, coupled with the recovery underway in our senior housing sector have been recognized by S&P and Moody's with both rating agencies recently rating our credit outlook to stable. The upgrades validate the prudent measures Welltower has taken to mitigate risk through the pandemic and to appropriately capitalize our recent investment activity.

On a forward-looking basis, as both Shank and John have noted, we continue to be pleased with the momentum of the recovery of the senior housing operating portfolio. With portfolio occupancy ending the quarter at 76.7%, 210 basis points higher than at the end of the prior quarter, but still over 1,000 basis points below pre-COVID levels, the portfolio also sits 1,400 basis points below peak occupancy levels achieved prior to last decade supply wave, setting the stage for a powerful EBITDA recovery as occupancy upside and strong rate growth is coupled with significant margin expansion of a very depressed base.

Lastly, moving to our fourth quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the fourth quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.20 to $0.25 and normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.78 to $0.83 per share.

This guidance does not take into consideration any further HHS or similar government programs in the U.K. and Canada. So when comparing it sequentially to our third quarter normalized FFO per share to be better to use an as adjusted $0.79 per share for 3Q, which excludes $5 million in out-of-period Canadian benefits that we received in the quarter.

On this comparison, the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance, $0.85 represents a $0.015 sequential increase from 3Q. This $0.015 increase is composed of $0.035 of accretion from strong investment activity in the third quarter and a sequential increase in senior housing operating portfolio NOI driven by an expected 140 basis point increase in sequential average occupancy, offset by $0.02 of dilution from increased sequential G&A and increased share count from share settled in the third quarter. And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shank.

Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Tim. I want to make 3 quick points before Q&A. First, despite our historic amount of capital deployment over the last few months, I'm very optimistic about the momentum into the year-end and next year. A recent prominent trend that we are starting to see that deals are bouncing back to us as buyers from buyers who need property level financing as debt market has become very skittish after recent disruption from Delta and labor challenges. We are working on 3 such transactions right now.

Second, with the significant rise of labor and other costs, operators are left with two choices if they were to survive as a business, either to cut services or corners or to increase prices. We believe families understand from looking at prices of virtually all goods and services from fast food to apartment rents that there is an unprecedented upward pressure in cost.

After speaking with vast majority of our operators, I can assure you that Welltower's operating partners do not plan to diminish the level of services and care provided to our residents. So for the industry in general, recent increase in expense, it would be difficult to continue to provide quality services without an appropriate balance in revenue.

As such, rent levels will need to be increased. The industry should not cut corners and should never lose focus on the quality of their services. Please remember, the simple mantra that there is no mission without margin. Third, our frantic pace of new hiring continues through the summer and fall for both early career as well as experience professionals. In fact, we have added 125 new colleagues since the beginning of COVID, representing a 25% increase in our overall headcount.

We're rounding up on our campus recruitment program as we speak, and I'm delighted that this year class will be the biggest in the history of the company. With that, operator, please open the call up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of Evercore ISI. Your line is open.

Q - Steve Sakwa{BIO 1504010 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. Shankh, I was just wondering, if you could talk a little bit about the occupancy trend that you're expecting into the fourth quarter. I realized that things are maybe seasonally slowing down as we move into the holidays, but I'm just wondering, if the trends you're seeing in in October and into early part of November, what are sort of the risks that you see to hitting the guidance that you put out there?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
See that's a really good question. So, let's talk about if you look at the history, you will see sequentially from Q3 to Q4, we usually have 20 basis points to 40 basis points of average occupancy growth. We guided 440, right? So, if occupancy is obviously up meaningfully from that number we gave you, what we are trying to give you is get away from this monthly, weekly numbers, right? We got to run a long-time company, but we can tell you, if the occupancy stays flat from here to the end of the quarter, we'll still hit our numbers. Now let's talk about the fundamental not about guidance, right? We have -- we are seeing unprecedented level of demand and sales environment that we have never seen, even this late into the year. If you look at how our October sales trends have ended and how November has started, this is truly unprecedented. Now how are we going to project that to the holiday season/ we're just not in the business of doing that. We're running a long-term business, but I can tell you, the momentum that we feel in the sales trends, which obviously translate into -- October sales trends, translate into November and December occupancy, we have never seen this kind of momentum. That's all I'm willing to say.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Amanda Sweitzer of Baird. Your line is open.

Q - Amanda Sweitzer{BIO 20528313 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. Can you help frame up how you're thinking about the potential magnitude of shop price increases next year a bit more either in terms of a current implied loss of leasing the portfolio or the pricing pre-owned that you expect the portfolio to achieve relative to the industry?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Amanda, we created a new slide in our slide deck if you look at it, the inflation versus what we think our historic rate growth has been. Now remember, that senior housing is not a income-driven sector, it's an asset driven sector. Housing is obviously the primary one, but the other things matter too. That should frame what is possible from you. I will also tell you, just if you go back and read my prepared remarks, we talked about how there needs to be a price increase to offset labor increase, and you sort of -- that will also give you some bookends of what is possible. Clearly, we know what the numbers are because obviously, we got to send letters 45, 60 days before, so we know what is being sent out. And the early feedback from some of our operators who has to send obviously these things early and remember we also have roles going through, right? Not the entire portfolio is Jan 1. So, we have some early indications of -- as we have seen the spike of expenses and we have our operating partners have adjusted their pricing, how is that update, that what is behind my comment that I'm very optimistic about pricing next year, but it is too early to comment. We'll talk about it in the February call, but I cannot emphasize it enough that we are very optimistic about the pricing increases and frankly, the industry as a whole, we need to do to do that. If we need to make more revenue than expenses in this business.

Operator
Thank you, next question, comes from the line of John Pelosi of Green Street. Your line is open.

Q - Analyst
Thanks. Maybe just one follow-up to that conversation there. Could you share what rate increases you're currently sending out today?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
John, you're putting me in a pretty tough spot. I don't want to put a number out there but, I'm trying to avoid that, but if you look at the inflation versus rent chart that we provided, we intentionally provided that. I would -- if I were you, I would look at that and then I would look at what that pricing power comes from, which is sort of the housing and other asset rates and how people fund this expense. And you will get to a number, but I will tell you, the industry overall -- I just came back from the new conference, industry is talking about substantial rate increases not mediocre rate business.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line is Nick Joseph of Citi. Your line is open.

Q - Nick Joseph{BIO 16891718 <GO>}
The best operators will rise. Just on kind of expense labor pressures, are you seeing that across all of the operators? Is it across all geographies or there any differences that you're seeing either from strategy or from location or any other factor?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
We have seen it across the board but of different magnitude. As I mentioned that the new operator that we brought in Q3, the $172 million transaction use (inaudible) and we have seen some operators where, contract labor cost has gone up 10x in six months. I want to repeat, Nick, 10x in six months, right? So, obviously you have seen a very different experience depending on, who the operator is, but I will tell you also, all these management teams are very focused on bringing that number down significantly. Our guidance, as Tim suggested, does not contemplate that you will see a step down in Q4, but we are already starting to hear as John said, we are already starting to hear that step down is taking place even in October, going to normal end of the year. What we don't know what is going to happen in the holiday season, so we're not going to sit here and speculate, right? Our goal is not to speculate on what's going to be a one quarter number, but go back to my comment, what I said, the stabilized margin of this portfolio, I can't talk about the industry. It is my firm belief that our margin will be higher than the pre-COVID margin on a stabilized basis.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Q - Mike Mueller{BIO 3519301 <GO>}
Yes, hi. I was curious, what does fourth quarter guidance assume for labor cost trends. Any improvement whatsoever or just kind of a continuation of increased on a full quarter at back?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Mike, as I mentioned in the previous question, that Tim assumed that it will not improve. That's what in the number of that we provided you. However, as I mentioned, that we are already starting to see improvement. The wild card here is how things play out in during the holiday season. We just don't know.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria of BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. Just hoping you could talk to pricing for new customers of the market today. I recognize that the intention is for the industry for Welltower operators to push come Jan 1 or on the 12-month anniversary, but curious on how pricing trends are faring for new customers kind of across the industry or across your portfolio?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Juan, exceptionally good question. It's actually my favorite topic. I like this topic more than even the rent increases. It is -- just I'm not going to mention any specific numbers. I will say, let's just say that we're talking about X percent increase on average for the whole portfolio from my operating partners, I'm hearing that street level increase in the rate is between 1.5x to 2x. The street is moving are faster than the renewal. That's what I'm hearing from my operating partners, but we'll see how that plays out. This is a very interesting cycle that we are seeing. There has never been more focused on quality and safety. So in previous cycles, if you have competed on whether you are new shiny penny on the corner or not, these cycled customers are focused on as they have always focused on there, but this cycle they're primarily focused on quality of services, quality of care and the reputation of operators. They're not competing on price.

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Derek Johnston of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. The $5.6 billion of investments over the past year really stands out. How much of this would you consider opportunistic driven by the pandemic versus perhaps in a normal Welltower growth that would have happened anyway? And is this level of investment repeatable going forward? How much more capacity do you have to get through the investment process and take advantage of this market?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So Derek, I do not give guidance on how much transaction we want to do. We're not a volume driven investor, we're a value-driven investor, that's the first point. The $5.6 billion significantly understate what that investment volume is. Just to give you a simple example. That what the transactions would we have closed represent, the $5.6 billion that you mentioned 25,000 units. Let's just think about it what that means. 25,000 units we have done at $172,000 per unit pricing. In a normal environment, that would have been $10 billion $11 billion, 12 billion per transaction, right? That's sort of -- we got to put that into perspective. Second, the industry remains very fragmented, and there is a lot of charm going on in ownership as people are finding it either this is if you are in three different businesses, and you don't want to be in this business anymore. We're seeing that from a lot of families, the labor pressure, obviously COVID-19 was hard enough, now the labor pressure challenge -- sort of arising from this. In the last few months we have seen those repeat transaction that we had conversation eight months ago, you'd recall, I mentioned that when we are not getting to the finish line on a transaction, that's not because that's going to somewhere else. It really means that there's no selling, selling, right? At that price, they're not selling. And now we're seeing a lot of people are giving really giving up. Now remember they can't give up because we bring an operator to the table, right? You will not tell your real estate and continue to run it. The reason you are selling real estate that you don't want to run it, right? So putting all this together, as I've said in my prepared remarks, despite a significant acquisition volume, I remain very optimistic that this trend of acquisition at this kind of prices will continue frankly longer than I thought.

Operator
Next question comes from the line of (inaudible) of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

Q - Analyst
Hey, Good morning, everyone. In your recent business update, there is an interesting slide here, that shows your shop portfolio and the power of diversification. I'm just kind of curious. Shankh, earlier on, you kind of mentioned ultimately, you expect winners and losers in the senior housing space over the next few years. Does that suggest that, we start to see a little bit more concentration, going forward across acuity, geography and operating model based on who you believe winners will be or should we still expect to kind of see real diversification across acuity and monthly rents with the idea being you just kind of pick the best players that each kind of point on this graph?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you (inaudible) welcome back.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
You picked the right slide to talk about. We do believe that diversification will continue, but there's going to be significant consolidation in the industry. Let me give you an example, a pretty good example to talk about. One of our base operating partner is our operating partner Midwest name StoryPoint. You've heard several times about how highly I think of this team. Before pandemic, we got an unsolicited offer at an incredible price, so, we sold the 13 buildings we had with StoryPoint, and kept two new developments that were recently -- at that point opened, right? So a big partner we want from 13 to 2. That was two years ago. Today, with all the transactions that we have done and all the transaction there in pipeline, in that two-years, frankly through the pandemic and last 15 months, we are back to 50 plus communities with StoryPoint. That tells you how the winners and losers are changing in the business. The market share of great operators is changing, right?

I'll give you another example. Look at how many assets Oakmont managed, right, is a great example of a fantastic operator. Look at how many assets Oakmont managed 12 months ago, 18 months ago, and make it -- note on your calendar to see Oakmont has become a dominant player in California today, 12 months from now, 24 months from now, right? This is just an example I'm trying to give you. So you will see that shift of winners and losers, you have seen some spectacular, failure of senior housing operators in the business and I can tell you, those are not the only ones that you know of.

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Rich Hill of Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Q - Richard Hill{BIO 16718747 <GO>}
Hey, good morning, guys. Hey, Shankh, you had a really interesting sliding deck about historical -- effectively revenue, relative to inflation. And as I listen to you talk and listen to you saying that this is the different cycle than past, it does strike me that may be the outperformance versus inflation could be even higher this time. Could you maybe talk about that over the medium to long term and how you think about that?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Absolutely. First, welcome to our call. We're glad to hear from you. If you think about inflation, inflation and most people think about inflation is a matter of how much, not just obviously the supply side, but also the demand side and people's ability to pay, right? So generally speaking, inflation is an income concept, which obviously as we all know that for most types of products and services. Senior housing is different. Senior housing is not a income driven sector. It's an assets driven sector. Look at the asset inflation of what happened, obviously we try to put together some slides to give you some sense, right? What happened to the people who are funding the resident this expense, and you will see that asset inflation has never been more significant -- the affordability of the product has never been better. So, I think you are on to something as I've tried to say without putting a number. Putting those two slides should give you a context of how much rent increases is possible not just near term, but over long period of time. And frankly speaking as I said, right? You think about we have a barbell strategy in our portfolio. And if you go back and look at the Q4 of '19 call that, this is the last call before COVID, that I talked about in details of how these barbell strategy work, where you have a high touch-high service product in the coast, our coastal tied market, where you can, where labor cost can be fully recovered and still in margin to be made. On the other hand, other side of the barbel, our Wellness housing portfolio there's no labor, right? So, we have gone to that. And that diversification we have been very, very focused and very intentional. So between the two, you will see a very significant inflation plus growth that's coming. That will be funded obviously to the asset inflation that already has happened.

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Yes, thanks. I want to go back to the street rate answer that you provided earlier. What's the reasoning that the seniors housing street rate growth is increasing at a faster clip than the renewal growth. I mean, our street rates lower rate now than those existing rates, and it's just that gaps closing or is there something different there than they're not thinking about?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
So Mike if you have to think about total rate versus real estate rate, right? Because usually a person comes in at a say, X level of care and then that goes up to say, X plus 2 level of care. So you got to obviously think about when you say street rate versus in-place rent, do you mean just the total rate or the real state rate? The real estate rates if you just call it the real state component of the rent is not the street rates are lower. It is just that the operators are realizing that they are not competing just on price, right?

They have a quality product and that quality product people know -- I don't hear from my operating partners people are coming that I want to stay down the lane for $500 less my operating partner. So you should go ahead and do that, right? We're not going to -- there's a cost to provide the services the first class services that we provide, right, that's just not going to happen that you will cut it. You are not going to stay at the Ritz Carlton for Hilton Garden's price, nothing wrong with any of those models, but that just not the model, right? So the street rates are going up because you have demand. Look at that take, what we are seeing even late -- this kind of late into the year when you should have -- seasonally we should have come off and we haven't. So as awkward as gain momentum on the sales side, right, they are realizing that was special product, there's a cost obviously of serving that piece of occupancy and we have to charge for it.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Jordan Sadler{BIO 15075677 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. Shankh, I wanted to just talk about some of the new things we saw this quarter, heard in the call and a couple things that sort of popped out to me were the CCRCs, they purchased during the quarter and then separately, when I heard you talking about -- John, you mentioned the ability to do sort of redevelopment real estate value add opportunities. So could you expand on sort of these two pieces ones, or just the interest level in the or increased level in the entrance fee communities and the return profile for those types of assets? And then maybe what specifically or maybe even generically you're thinking in terms of redevelopment or value-add dollars or opportunities?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Those was two very good question, Jordan, and thank you for getting two questions through the first time on the line. So I'll answer both and I hope I can remember it. So, let's just try first. It's not an increased level of interest in the CCRC communities. We are value driven real-estate investors. We saw a tremendous opportunity because of the (inaudible) So if I -- if I give you some details we bought that portfolio for $195,000 unit and with remarkable (inaudible), right? So talk about Westchester, New York, Dana Point, California, Bellevue Washington, Alexandria that level that kind of (inaudible). And then we thought what we can do with the dart, right? Then I mentioned obviously there is an example of the asset came with a piece of parcel that is the last residential zone piece of land in residential area, Bellevue, right? So when we look at a lot of CCRCs we continue to -- we always have we continue to look at it just we never seen this kind of opportunity where we can do more than what we buy, not just leasing up, obviously what we've done, but also a lot more work that can be done with the dart, right, with the current entitlement.

That's why we're interested in we -- as I mentioned I give details of what I think that it can go from a high-single digit unlevered IRR to a low double-digit unlevered IRR, as we execute on this. And frankly, we bought a -- that's where most of our returns have been focused on. We continue to get, call it, between 9% to 12, 13%, unlevered IRR most of the transaction were done and we're return light right there. Focused on the real estate value add one of the big relative value at this company tried to do is vintage. As you are well aware of the fact that hasn't played out well for us. So, as I went through the experience, I realized that we didn't have the right talent. It's much more difficult to do it than obviously, we thought.

And we stopped that whole focus on real-estate value add in a traditional sense of the real estate. As you know, John has done this for billions of dollars of transactions and executed based on the strategy. So when we're talking to John, going back two months ago that's something that came up and now, obviously, John, as we marched into the portfolio and he's obviously one of the most important member of our investment committee. So those opportunities we're now ready to really expand on and really execute on. It also adds to what I mentioned that we have built an extraordinary development team over the last 18 months under the leadership of Mike Ferry. We brought in Mike over a year ago and he has built a very large team. And so those are all -- those -- our stars are all coming together, right, but it's a skill set we didn't have and now we do have it.

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson of SMBC, your line is open.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
I'm going to go after John Burkart here. So, John, welcome to the call.

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Yes, the comments he made about some of the things that you want to sort of apply to the business from your experience in multifamily. I just wanted to touch on a couple. I know you're not going to give away the secret sauce now, but revenue management and some of the multifamily tech initiatives that have been sort of the name of the game in in that business for a while now. Isn't revenue management only as good as its fully kind of used in the industry? So, if you're using revenue management and no one else is, it's sort of not useless, but certainly not as effective. So, how do you get the word out on using revenue management? How much is it being used in the industry? And then also in the tech initiatives. How much is that out there already? There, I think you can make a real difference relative to your peers. I just wanted to see if I can get some color from you on those two topics. Thanks.

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Certainly. And Shankh would tell you got two questions in.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Of course.

A - John F. Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
On the revenue management, actually I don't agree with you. I think it is operator related, and it has really nothing to do with the industry as a whole. It's an individual, how you price the units, but more than that and more than even the software. And this gets into really one of the wonderful things here is leveraging our data analytics platform, because what you have to do is you have to price the units, right the amenity price and the base pricing. It's not just about changing the price over time, it's about pricing the base price correctly. The relationships between ones and twos, the values of certain units with those with views, those without, et cetera. And looking at a portfolio, you just can't possibly do that, 1 person, 10 people, 20 people and get it right. But leveraging the data analytics platform and to go back in time, and look at how the market has priced it.

Now that's a different, that's a game changer. And that's what we're working on right now is I'm partnered up with our data analytics platform to go back and look at our units look and understand how the markets priced it, I can tell you, in one particular case, we looked and saw on a high-rise substantial variations in demand versus pricing and we're talking in some cases a $1,000 a unit, really dramatic change in how we're going to price that product based upon what the market has told us. So we'll take that. And then we'll add on top of that, some other software that will ultimately create to price the unit. So super excited about that. And the second question was on technology was your second question, tremendous opportunities. No question about it. I won't go into the details here because I don't to give that away. But yes, there are tremendous opportunities to really improve the customer experience, but also to reduce the labor. And of course, that's a big component by just applying existing technology into the business that hasn't been used in the past. So very excited about that.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Nick Yulico of Scotiabank. Your line is open. is open.

Q - Nicholas Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Thanks. I just want to go back to the expense topic and how to think about labor because it was up 4% year-over-year in the third quarter, the occupancy was down a bit. So maybe that's an unusual relationship, but just trying to understand how we should think about labor expenses going forward because it doesn't seem like that is the pressure that's going to be any time soon. I mean, you talked about agency labor. Maybe I'm a little bit confused why that you use of agency labor would be reduced going forward, if it's still a challenging time to be hiring people? And maybe you just go to triangulate how you guys are thinking about labor, when you talk about Shankh your comment that shop margin will be higher than that pre-COVID eventually. You gave IRR calculations which assumed something presumably about margin, labor expenses maybe you just give us a feel for how you guys are really underwriting labor as an expense going forward?

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Fantastic. I would highly recommend you go back and read the script and you will see that we have detailed that out in our prepared remarks as well as in the other -- answering other questions, but I'll try to summarize it. First, you have to understand the confluence of factors haven't just purely focused on the labor side in the quarter. You people didn't travel for 18 months, and then that's the first time you've got a lot of PTOs being taken, and that's sort of what caused a very significant demand because our operatives provide PTOs, right? So, you've got a significant surge of that, that sort of understand sort of one aspect of what happens. Two, you got one extra day in the quarter you get paid by obviously daily basis. Pieces, but you get revenue in most cases -- in many cases on a monthly basis that sort of second point, right?

So third, you have to understand that when because of the rise of COVID, people were extra cautious. There's a reason, there is no COVID in that community, right? You've got sniffles and you called in and you should have called in. But at that last moment, look at the spike of the COVID through the quarter, majority of the we -- got obviously problems in July, but then we got a massive spike as you follow the COVID curve through August and September. We're on the other side of that, right? So that's why, if you put all of this together, then obviously follow the opt-in state versus -out state comment that John made, you will understand it's not a question of optimism. We're actually seeing it that we're on the other end of it. But only time will say, obviously how that exactly plays out, how much time that takes, but if you follow all these comments we made you can put together that picture pretty clearly.

A - Timothy G. McHugh{BIO 18336666 <GO>}
Nick I would just add. If you look at compensation agency, it was up 40 basis points year-over-year. So to your point occupancy a bit down still seeing compensation cost up, there is real base wage inflation, but the driver of that 4.1% year-over-year expense grows. The lion share of it is being driven by agency.

Operator
Thank you. There no further question at this time. And that concludes our conference call. You may now disconnect.

A - Shankh S. Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you.