Q1 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
John Burkart, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer
Matt McQueen, Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
Shankh Mitra, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer
Tim McHugh, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Adam Kramer, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Austin Wurschmidt, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Derek Johnston, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
John Pulaski, Analyst, Green Street
Joshua Dennerlein, Analyst, Bank of America
Juan Sanabria, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Michael Carroll, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Michael Griffin, Analyst, Citi
Mike Mueller, Analyst, JPMorgan
Nick Yulico, Analyst, Scotiabank
Rich Anderson, Analyst, SMBC
Steve Sakwa, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Steven Valiquette, Analyst, Barclays
Vikram Malhotra, Analyst, Mizuho
Presentation
Operator
Hello and welcome to the Q1 2022 Welltower, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce General Counsel, Matt McQueen.

Matt McQueen{BIO 18276475 <GO>}
Thank you and good morning. As a reminder, certain statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements in the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although Welltower believes any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, the company can give no assurances that projected results will be attained. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are detailed in the company's filings with the SEC.

And with that, I'll hand the call over to Shankh for his remarks.

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Thank you, Matt, and good morning everyone. I'll describe our capital allocation priorities in a rapidly evolving investment environment and review high level business trends before handing the call over to John who will detail operational trends.

A little over a year ago, our senior housing operating business witnessed a powerful inflection point with occupancy gains and pricing power sustained through the remainder of the year despite Delta and Omicron variants. This momentum continued into first quarter of this year and translated into the first period of year-over-year bottom line growth for our company since the beginning of pandemic. Our total portfolio revenue is up 32.7% year-over-year, driven by both organic revenue growth, as well as a significant volume of high conviction capital deployment during the last 18 months.

On a same-store basis, our senior housing operating portfolio revenue was up 11.2% year-over-year driven by a 4.6% occupancy growth and 4.6% rate growth. Encouragingly, we saw a sequential pricing growth was 4.3%, the fastest growth recorded in our history, despite only half of our operators pushing through in-house rent increases on Jan 1 schedule.

All of these translated into 18.4% same-store NOI growth in Q1 an impressive number that surpassed our expectations. We're all very encouraged by the speed at which street rates are moving up and we expect same-store NOI growth will accelerate into the second half of the year barring another COVID spike, all of these setting up to be a powerful earnings recovery that we anticipate in 2023 and beyond.

Before I turn into investment environment, I want to make two things here that are very important for multi-year earnings growth path. Number one, in 2018 when we converted our Brandywine Senior Living lease to RIDEA, I mentioned the two other portfolio we had in triple-net structure that we hope to convert. One of them was Legend Senior Living. After many years of discussion with Tim Buchanan, Legend's legendary Founder and CEO, I'm pleased to report that we have converted this relation into RIDEA.

Recall that we had an 88% and 20% JV between Welltower and Legend. At conversion Tim contributed a portion of his profitable five brand new assets and has agreed to a future to help an agreement to create a powerful 93%, 7% equity partnership going forward. Finally, after years of persuasion we have convinced them that we can grow the pie using our data analytics platform so significantly that you will still be better off despite wanting a smaller portion of the pie. A partner of our company since 2019, Legend has paid every single dollar of brands that was owed to Welltower regardless of the coverage on a given day.

Though these deal is dilutive to our FFO in 2022 due to significant agency labor issues yesterday. We expect cash flow to relative to the previous rent was breakeven in the beginning 2023 and our shareholders will enjoy upside from there on. We hope for extraordinary partnership over last -- we had extraordinary partnership over the last three decades, and we hope that we will continue for many months to come.

This transition along with the acquisition and future development partnership exemplifies our sole focus on enhancing long-term value of the portfolio and indicated the potential earnings upside in the portfolio that can be captured through a simple cap rate or multiple valuation methodology.

Number two, historically, our SHOP business focused on managing managers and assets. Now that we have significantly upgraded our operational capabilities, including through the hiring of John Burkart, our COO. Our focus in the SHOP business will mirror the real estate and management services that we provide in our Medical Office business or what an apartment REIT does. With the understanding that were limited in providing care services in a helped qualified health care property. This fundamental shift in our approach has a profound impact on how we think about our role in the operating step. This is particularly important as we think through the most important part of that operating platform, which is the technology stack.

John will get into the details as part of his script, but we are delighted that he is in full scale development and implementation of a true operating platform at Welltower. John is working closely with some of our best operating partners to launch this, call it, RIDEA for now but honestly that doesn't do our new approach adjusted as to the scale and impact we think his plans will have on the customer experience and value creation overall. Needless to say, we expect this multi-year initiative will have a tremendous impact on our earnings growth trajectory and long-term compounding machine that we are setting up at Welltower.

Now let's talk about capital allocation. As you know, my team is extraordinary focused on allocating capital to create far share value for existing shareholders. The key one is existing. We favor our existing shareholders who have been our partners through thick and thin, especially through thin. We are fiercely protective of their interest on a per share basis and owned act in a manner that does not create significant value for them.

Because we're extremely transparent and genuinely dislike drama, I will mention to you that Welltower is the party referenced in the HTA and HR merger property couple of weeks ago. Every week we call owners of assets and express our interest to buy them at a price, this was no different. I am genuinely disappointed that HR board and management did not engage with us. But that is their prerogative.

It is completely after their shareholder and the Board which is represents the shareholders to decide how to maximize value. Because of the many rumors circulating and the reports and articles about this, I'll mention few things before moving on to much more important items.

Number one. We're a fair win-win people, we offer to buy the company on public information at $31.75 per share, plus a breakup fee of $163 million from a merger, which as you have seen the market what is a significantly value destructive by analyst reports. We believe that our cash offer provided better value to HR shareholders then the HTA merger and it was fully financed and we're prepared to move within days. I've read research note that describes our unfair pricing relative to what might be a barcoded market cap rate.

Please understand that we did not offer to buy an asset. We offer to buy a company that we are willing to pay for asset and pay breakup fee that built of company -- for company's existing shareholders from potential dilution then with respect analysis community has been writing about. I hope this will stop miss characterization of our offer and our intent.

Number two. Welltower always has and always will honoured in agreement with third parties including that with HTA. In fact HTA itself highlighted our NDA with them by providing by first disclosing into HR and then related to the public in the joint proxy. Further our NDA with them does not contain a standstill that will apply us to making an offer for HR as a standalone entity. As you would expect with signed with HTA in order to access information regarding HTA and its property, therefore the standstill only applies to and HTA and its properties. Our proposal what expressly condition on HR not completing the HTA transaction.

Number three. We have never chased a deal, and never will. We buy everything at a price and sell everything at a price. Although I'm disappointed that HR did not engage with us as our offer -- we thought our offer would result into a superior outcome for HR shareholders. I have no intention of being hocked-up I personally like Todd I called him and expressed our interest. We didn't buy shares in the public market, nor did we act in anything but a friendly way. They did not engage under these circumstances we have nothing to do here.

Number four. Contrary to what some analysts might have written this deal would not have been diluted to our senior housing growth. You don't know what proportion of equity, debt or joint ventures we might have contemplated for the transaction. But even if you think we were to do this entirely on the balance sheet, it would be a rather simple exercise. Look at the NOI bridge in our business update, divide that NOI by existing number of shares, calculate the additional shares required by the HR transaction to calculate dilution on a per share basis and then add back the accretion from the deal.

You will see our existing shareholders would have covered ahead. We look at every single investment through the lens of opportunity thought. Specifically, we have to satisfactorily answered three questions that Buffett has started and then what, compared to what and the expense of what this is not different.

And number five. We're not disappointed nor we are concerned about our growth for senior housing business, while the contrary. In fact, we just reported 18.4% same-store NOI growth and expected to meaningfully accelerate in the second half of the year.

Now that I have put all this rumours to death, let's talk about the 30 or so owners would be engage with us to create win-win partnership transaction. Year-to-date we have closed $1.2 billion of acquisitions across 21 different off-market or privately negotiated transactions. This is a remarkable stat given the torrid pace of activity last year. I find it difficult to talk about specific deals as it feels like picking your favorite children. But I still mention handful of transaction to give you a sense.

We bought 700 units across three large communities in Washington State with Cogir to expand our partnership with Matthew and Dave. Dave Eskenazy is one of the best in the business and I'm glad that he is now back full time as Cogir US' CEO. We're also expanding our partnership with the purchase of another property in Brentwood, located in the East Bay of Northern California. All properties were bought at a significant discount to replacement cost, for example, the Brentwood asset contains large units and it was bought for 320K per unit. We believe the replacement cost in East Bay today is easily significantly not $500,000 event.

Additionally, we are significantly deepening our relationship with Dan and his team and StoryPoint with the acquisition of 33 communities in Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee in their backyard. With immediate vintage of 2016 we're extremely pleased with the average price of 197K per unit which is meaningful discount to replacement cost, with 63% of client average occupancy this sizable deal will be dilutive to our 2022 FFO per share but properties are anticipated to generate significant occupancy, margin and cash flow growth in 2023 and beyond on the StoryPoint enhanced operating platform. This is another example of us choosing the right long-term investment decision and cash flow growth of our GAAP earnings accretion. Another thing you hear from us consistently.

In another transaction we announced we are expanding our partnership with Courtney and our team at Oakmont with seven new asset in extraordinary locations in California. Courtney and her team are at the absolute top of operating Echelon and we cannot be happier to grow this partnership together.

Separately, within the medical office space we bought four building property portfolio on the campus of one of the strong hospitals in Birmingham, Alabama for a 5.5% cap rate in an absolute net lease structure at a great basis. Given the absolute debt structure, we expect unlevered IRR to be high-single digit range. We also under contract to buy two large beautiful MOBs one in San Francisco Bay Area and other in Sacramento MSA for a high 5% going in cap rate at a great basis. Again, we expect to generate high single-digit IRR in both cases.

In terms of the financing market in last 30 days or so, we have seen a massive shift with property level leverage down 15 points, cost doubling and interest only disappearing from the market both in seniors, as well as in MOBs. This is starting to have a tectonic impact on asset pricing. To put it bluntly, I have not been this excited about our acquisition prospects since Q4 of 2020. About six weeks ago an investor whom I respect very much asked me if I am optimistic about the next $7 billion of acquisition as I was about the last $7 billion on acquisition that we did since pivoting to offense in 4Q of 2020. I instinctively answer what I truly believe that we're driven by value not by volume with this, this investor took it as a no.

Today that answer will be unequivocally, yes. Yes, we are excited about the figuratively next $7 billion as we are when we acted in the last $7 billion. To that effect, our pipeline today is roughly $1.5 billion of deals and process across 20 different off-market or privately negotiated transactions. Several of these potentially operating unit transactions, which we expect to be very popular with the sellers. Please recall that we define our pipeline as transaction that are already under contract.

In addition to this, we're negotiating and then a couple of billion also acquisition across several other transaction. While we may not eventually succeed in convincing sellers to agree to our price, please note that we don't need any given transaction, price is the price. We see cracks in the market and are focused on where the path is going and not where the path might have been.

The value of the party that never get trade and doesn't require debt has really been higher. In more systems in nature, such as coast line, cloud, turbulent no matter how much to scale up or scale down you notice a remarkable similar property in order that in same offer in everywhere in nature. For example, in Florida the cauliflower is same as a cauliflower. This phenomenon is called fractal geometry. This is the same idea that our Drive Time Polygon are based on if you have seen our data science presentation.

Increasingly, interestingly organization history is full of companies who grow successfully through small bolt-on acquisition in the advantageous niche only to convince themselves on strategic acquisition that get them in trouble. David Packard, the Founder of HP brilliantly said more businesses die from indigestion than starvation to describe this phenomenon. At Welltower, we don't have strategic acquisitions. In fact sales similarity of mother nature is highly visible in our investment philosophy, no matter how small or big a specific investment is where after the same driven by the same factors in all cases we're buying, number one, a reasonable basis relative to replacement cost. And number two, where we can add value by driving operational improvement. We are not spread investing deal junkies we are true total written investors and are optimistic that 2022 will be one of the best years in the company's history from an acquisition point.

With that, I'll hand the call over to my partner, John Burkart, our Chief Operating Officer, John?

John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Thank you, Shankh. My comments today will touch upon the performance of our operating business in the quarter and provide some elements of our vision for senior housing. Starting with our medical office portfolio in the first quarter our outpatient medical business delivered 2.7% same-store NOI growth over the prior year's quarter, while occupancy declined modestly to 94.5%. We continue to see strong retention rates in the first quarter of 92% likely driven by rising construction cost, construction delays and the related increases in new lease rents. Going forward, we expect occupancy decline modestly as we continue to increase renewal rates in line with market increases.

Now turning to our senior housing portfolio the coiled spring as Shankh has called it is starting its expansion. Revenue in our same-store portfolio grew at 11.2% in the first quarter compared to the prior year's quarter. That's over 2x the growth rate experienced last quarter and the highest year-over-year increase since at least 2017. Our first quarter performance was led by our US portfolio, which reported year-over-year top line growth of 13.5%.

Additionally, as we've described in recent calls, pricing power continues to strengthen as reflected by strong renewal rate increases and in the market rate. In fact, REVPOR growth in the first quarter increased by the highest level in years at 4.6% year-over-year and 4.3% sequentially. While expenses grew at a rate of 9.5% the more insightful expense metric is expense POR or expense per occupied room which only grew at a rate of 3% in the first quarter year-over-year on a year-over-year basis, the lowest since at least 2017.

The combination of higher rental rates increase in occupancy and improving margins led to an outstanding NOI growth rate of 18.4%. Our operators continue to report very strong demand with traffic above 2019 levels, which bodes well for the peak sales season ahead. And if things play out as we expect continued top-line strength and further improvement on the expense side, should result in a meaningful acceleration in NOI growth in the back half of the year.

Understandably since taking over as COO at Welltower I've received questions about my vision and areas of focus, both of which I want to provide some insight you on this call. I will outline the opportunity I see and highlight some key elements of my plan, which I believe Welltower is uniquely positioned to execute.

As I evaluate the senior housing business, my perspective is a little different than the conventional wisdom that is developed as the healthcare REIT industry has evolved. The healthcare REIT industry, including Welltower started with triple-net leases for senior housing given the owners little to no and operations and asset management. As the industry evolved with RIDEA the historic reliance on the operators to run the business continued.

The senior housing industry was founded by strong visionary leaders who saw that there was a much better way for society to provide quality lifestyles for its aging members and they acted accordingly. Like so many industries which are started by small businesses, they are specialist in their core focus. In this case, providing quality, living experience for our aging populations and generalist in the many other important elements related to running a modern operating business.

But as you know, I come to this business with a different perspective and have broken down the business into a few components. It's essentially the multifamily business that provides care with some hospitality. As Shankh alluded to in his opening remarks, although REITs are limited in providing care services, we can perform multifamily type functions like revenue management, capital management procurement, provide IT expertise as well as leverage our data science expertise.

By doing so, we have the opportunity to fundamentally change the potential of this business by creating a full scale operating platform and bringing operational excellence to the senior housing business. Overall, I have to believe that Welltower has a substantial opportunity to improve the customer and employee experience and create shareholder value through leading the digital transformation of the business.

More to come on timing, but I will say that we are actively working on the initiative partnering with best-in-class operators and we will deliver various components as they are ready. The addition of the world-class operating platform will continue to dramatically increase the size and depth of the Welltower moat and it will greatly simplify the business for our top operators enabling them to focus on their core strengths, increasing their effectiveness and efficiency and driving increased total returns. We expect that all our stakeholders, including our operating partners and investors will emerge as winners in this next phase of the senior housing business.

I'll now turn the call over to Tim.

Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Thank you, John. My comments today will focus on our first quarter 2022 results. The performance of our triple-net investment segments in the quarter, our capital activity, our balance sheet and liquidity update and finally, our outlook for the second quarter. Welltower reported fourth quarter net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.14 per diluted share and normalized funds from operations of $0.82 per diluted share, which was above the midpoint of our $0.79 to $0.84 per share guidance. Despite our results only including approximately $600,000 of HHS funds versus the $6 million expectation we previously forecasted as part of our guidance.

This quarter represented our first with year-over-year normalized FFO growth since the start of the pandemic and when excluding Provider Relief Funds received in the respective periods, our $0.82 per share represents 15% year-over-year growth versus the first quarter of 2021. We are also pleased to report the total portfolio same-store NOI growth turned positive in the quarter, with 8.9% year-over-year growth, which compares favorably to guidance of 7%.

Turning to our triple-net lease portfolios. As a reminder, our triple-net lease portfolio coverage and occupancy stats are reported quarterly. So these statistics reflect the trailing 12 months ending 12/31/2021. In our senior housing triple-net portfolio same-store NOI increased 6.9% year-over-year and exceeded our expectations, driven by improvements in rent collections on leases currently and cash recognition and the early impact of rental increases tied to CPI.

Trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage is 0.82x with a sequential improvement, mainly driven by the conversion of Legend Senior Living per day in the quarter. As indicated last quarter, we expect coverage to continue to move higher through the rest of the year as the positive inflection point, we started experiencing in our SHOP portfolio in the first quarter will be reflected in our triple-net coverages on a one quarter lag.

Next, our long-term post-acute portfolio generated negative 1.8% year-over-year same-store NOI growth and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 1.3x. We completed $67 million of long-term post-acute sales in the quarter, bringing our total sales in the last 12 months to $525 million in a blended cap rate of 7.5% with an additional $202 million under contract for sale at quarter end. As a result, our long-term post-acute portfolio represented just 4.8% of total in-place NOI at year-end versus 10.1% at the end of 2020, a 530 basis point decline driven largely by the exit of our Genesis relationship.

And lastly health systems, which is comprised of our ProMedica Senior Care joint venture with ProMedica Health System. At same-store NOI growth of positive 2.75% year-over-year and trailing 12-month EBITDAR coverage was 0.2x. As a reminder this lease is backed by the full corporate guarantee from ProMedica Health System.

Turning to capital market activity. We continue to enhance our balance sheet strength and position the company to capitalize a robust and highly visible pipeline of capital deployment opportunities by utilizing our ATM program to efficiently fund those near-term transactions. Since the start of the year, we have sold 21 million shares via forward sale agreement at an initial weighted average price of approximately $89.90 per share, for expected gross proceeds of $1.9 billion. We currently have approximately 19.5 million shares remaining unsettled which are expected to generate future proceeds of $1.8 billion.

Additionally, we are seeing significant interest from potential sellers to accept OP units as consideration providing further investment capacity. Taken together, our unsettled ATM proceeds, potential OP unit issuances and $352 million of expected property dispositions and loan payoff proceeds provide ample capacity to fund our current investment pipeline.

Third quarter we issued our second green bond comprised of $550 million of 10-year unsecured debt maturing in 2032 with a coupon of 3.85%. Following a similar disciplines and equity funding strategy this is our fourth unsecured issuance in March of 2021 bringing total debt issuance over the span of $2.3 billion with an average duration of 9.5 years and average coupon of 3%.

At quarter end, when factoring in cash and restricted cash balances, our liquidity position exceeded the $4 billion of borrowing capacity on our line of credit. And when combined with the previously mentioned $2.1 billion of unsettled ATM proceeds and expected disposition proceeds, we remain in a very strong liquidity position.

Lastly, moving to our second quarter outlook. Last night, we provided an outlook for the second quarter of net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share of $0.20 to $0.25 per share, and normalized FFO per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.87 per share or $0.845 at the midpoint. This guidance takes into consideration approximately $6 million of HHS funds expected to be received in the second quarter.

This guidance represents a $0.25 increase at the midpoint from our $0.82 per share number in 1Q. This $0.25 increase is composed of a $0.04 sequential increase in our senior housing operating portfolio NOI, one penny incremental increase in HHS funds and is offset by $0.25 of increased interest expense, lower foreign exchange rates particularly the British pound and dilution from development deliveries.

Underlying this FFO guidance is estimated second quarter total portfolio year-over-year same-store growth of 8% to 10% driven by sub-segment growth of outpatient medical 2% to 3%, long-term post-acute 2% to 3%, health system positive 2.75% and senior housing triple-net 7% to 8%.

And finally, senior housing operating growth of 15% to 20% driven by revenue growth of 11% and underlying this revenue growth is an expectation approximately of 500 basis points of year-over-year average occupancy increase and continued robust rate increases. We continue to be pleased by the momentum of the top line recovery in our senior housing operating portfolio, driven by combination of rate and occupancy growth.

Setting the stage for multi-year recovery to average occupancy in the portfolio at 76.4% at quarter end, nearly 1,100 basis points below pre-COVID levels and nearly 1,500 basis points below peaked occupancy levels. We describe this recovery in the past as a coiled spring with both secular and cyclical tailwinds behind it.

We've started to see the spring release in the core portfolio, we made the conscious decision to steadily allocate capital to distress under operated and often initially dilutive properties along with high quality development projects. While the capital allocation has the effect of offsetting some of our core growth today, we will sustainably amplify in the years to come. In short, we're working hard to keep that spring coil even as we start to realize the power of the earnings growth it can drive.

And with that, I'll hand the call back over to Shankh.

Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
I want to sum it up, some of the call by saying I cannot be more pleased with the internal and external growth prospect of the economy. We have taken a lot of shots, suffered a lot of pain through the course of many years to finally get to the point where we believe we're primed for long-term compounding. The only way we know how to create significant shareholder wealth over a long period of time.

A great investment has three characteristics outsized returns, low risk and long duration, while we are very successful in finding outsized returns in off-market opportunities that we continue to execute on what equally focused on lower risk and longevity. This is why we're obsessed with acquiring assets at a reasonable basis relative to replacement cost in order to reduce risk. And in terms of longevity Page 20 of our business update will describe to you, third year or so win-win contractual partnership that we have signed to a seamless wave trust where we hope to deploy $30 plus billion of capital to so in next decade and beyond.

We see enormous opportunity for growth within our circle of confidence, which we define as the area where we can allocate capital with house odds instead of gamblers odds using our predictive analytics platform. This confluence are outsized internal and external growth has created a rare condition, which is gone leaping effect or as Munger described it Lollapalooza Effect. You as our owners can rest assured that we will not make any poor capital allocation decision that will geopolarises rare living in margin conditions that we have achieved through many years of hard work, luck, courage and a culture where everybody is all in.

With that, operator, please open the call up for questions. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Certainly. As a reminder to ask a question, (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra with Mizuho

Q - Vikram Malhotra{BIO 17484375 <GO>}
Thanks so much for taking the question. I'm going to try to just want to clarify one. Budgets as far as Shankh you talked about pricing power rent growth accelerating. Can you maybe expand on that? What does that mean for the second half and maybe sustainability into 2023 on SHOP pricing power. And then just a clarification, just you talked a lot about the MOB, the HR bid. Just very simplistically, I mean you've talked you've not like and MOBs historically at least maybe a year or two years ago, like what changed very simplistically.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay. Let me answer both of those questions separately, just not two end. So first let's answer the MOB. Question we like all asset classes at a price, I've always said, even if you look back two quarters ago, we said, it makes no sense to us that people buying MOBs in the high 4% cap rate range when after CapEx given the low 4s. When you could see in the breakeven market how financing market was going to change, right? I'm just surprised that people are surprised this happen.

Now you are in a situation where you're financing cost is higher than your cost of your return on equity at those kinds of pricing, which is a real estate is called debt cross, right? That is a harbinger of the obviously what's to come on that asset pricing side. That doesn't make any sense to me, why would you buy something at those prices with that growth rate relative to inflation. Nothing has changed, look at become what we just bought. We bought one MOB at an absolute triple-net lease, which obviously means we're not responsible to CapEx, call it a 5.5%, which is an equivalent triple-net would be close to a 6% and we bought two others in California, that's high-5s right, where we think that we can get to an unlevered high single-digit IRR. So that makes sense to us. So it is all about pricing not exposure that determines your investment success.

Second point, obviously the pricing power. Obviously, we talked about how we think in-house pricing increase would be and that's obviously very necessary to offset all the cost that we have seen in the system. I'm particularly encouraged that what we see is the street rates are moving. Street rates have moved I would say first quarter we have seen high single digit in April, we have seen some operators street rates well into double-digits, right? So that along with, if you think about half of our -- roughly speaking, half our residents on Jan 1 schedule right to receive -- on schedule of anniversary rate. So if you put those two together will see sustained strong pricing power for the year, which we're very, very excited about it.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI

Q - Steve Sakwa{BIO 1504010 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning. Shankh, I was hoping you could maybe just expand a little bit on the distress that you're seeing in the transaction market. And I realize that you're not necessarily focused on initial cap rates. But I'm curious when you look at your underwriting have the unlevered IRRs that you think you're going to achieve changed at all. And just trying to get a better flavor for the activity levels and just maybe how return hurdles might be going up for you.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. So Steve, if you recall, the initial phases of this pandemic, we have done many transaction in call it low single -- low double-digit unlevered IRR would said as the market started to come back on sort of translate into high single-digit unlevered IRR right. And given what happened in the marketplace in the last 30 days with financing market totally blew up as I said, leverage is down, cost of leverage is significantly up and IO completely vanished. If you think through that that really put a levered IRR model upside down.

So we are now starting to see -- I've seen more deals dropping from contract in last 30 days than I've ever seen in my career. So we are starting to see that all the deals are bouncing back. No, we always have said that no, price is a price we give people a price underwrite a deal on an unlevered basis. So, for us it doesn't really change anything, and with all the price, and we're seeing all those things are coming back. So it is that I don't want to get too excited, but I'm starting to see the margins of sort of those low-double digit, unlevered deals starting to pop up again.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Derek Johnston with Deutsche Bank.

Q - Derek Johnston{BIO 20396293 <GO>}
Hi, everybody. Good morning. Just on the agency expenses down 10% sequentially. Can we get a sense of month by month improvement especially since Jan and even said like we had pretty high Omicron cases. Seems that agency utilization could have improved each month of these move through the first quarter we just hoping you can quantify the monthly utilization trend and where agency stands today versus expectations. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Derek, we don't want to get into month by month, but you're obviously the way you are thinking about this question is a correct one. We have seen steady improvement through the quarter and we have seen significant improvement post the quarter, right? So it wasn't in are coming in, we have seen that, which is frankly. So what sort of gives us confidence that we think where things are continuing in the second quarter as well as in the back half of the year. This is obviously I want to -- I said this and I'm going to say this, again, we're not in the business of predicting COVID, all bets are off if you have a massive COVID spike again. But that's what we are seeing in a normalized market conditions, things are improving rapidly. I don't know. Tim, you want to add anything to that.

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
No I think that's right. We gave color on our last call. When we do January results and we spoke to kind of seeing a 10% decline from December to January. We gave similar color today and seeing a little bit and that as a trend for the full quarter. So let me give you read be kind of saw consistent decreases relative to the counterpart the fourth quarter.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Dennerlein with Bank of America.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
Yeah. Good morning everyone.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Good morning, Josh.

Q - Joshua Dennerlein{BIO 19075720 <GO>}
I wanted to ask about the expanded partnership with Oakmont. What's so attractive about Oakmont partnership and then maybe could you also touch on the CCRCs that you acquired with them.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yeah. So what's more attractive about Oakmont is, Oakmont is one of the best operators in the business. I mean, so we -- I mean look at we have mentioned is before they are one of the first ones to come back to sort of 90-plus percent occupancy range. If you look at Oakmont's portfolio performance, it will be hard for us to believe client performance that there was a pandemic that good in operation.

Now, going back to the point, what else is very attractive? We disclose obviously I think couple of quarters ago that we signed a long-term partnership -- development partnership with them. So we're very excited about that. We think we're going to create significant value for Oakmont principles as well as Welltower shareholders for years to come.

And CCRCs, so we did not bring Oakmont to the CCRCs, the CCRC that Oakmont developed and they run currently with a lot of, obviously this is not just entry level CCRC there was also a lot of rental units in there. So we thought they do an extraordinary job of that and you know as we always said, just don't think about these things that this moniker CCRC this that RIDEA triple-net doesn't change what fundamentally the businesses is a large campuses. We think that we bought it a basis and at a cash flow and see potential growth of cash flow that we think we can make a lot of money.

So that's what we see about the partnership. We also bought four traditional rental model together that we think obviously is going to create meaningful growth as well. A lot of these assets opened in 2021. So we're not going to see probably a very significant amount of earnings contribution in 2022, but you will see potentially significant amount in 2023 and beyond.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of John Pulaski of Green Street.

Q - John Pulaski
Thanks for taking the question. Shankh I wanted to go back to your comments about no intention of going hostile on HR. Forget HR for a moment. I'd just like to better understand your philosophical views on hospital take outs broader than HR. So if the price is right are you interested in going cost hostile of philosophically against it?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
I'm not going to comment philosophically what I think on hostile or not, frankly speaking there is an inappropriate for us to do that. I will guarantee you that we will not go hostile that's just not how we do business. We believe that when people and we like to deal with people who actually know just think about it, just very simply minor reciprocation is how the world works. You walk into elevator you smile at a person 95% of the time that person smiles back at you. That's called mirrored reciprocation. We'd like to deal with people who believed in mirror reciprocation what we can do win-win transactions with people we have zero desire to go hostile on HR or anybody.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with SMBC.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning. So if I can just kind of use HR as a platform. But I think more broadly about how you're thinking about the investment horizon. If you're offer prices low 5 type implied cap rate on that stock. Would it make sense for you to kind of deploy this distress model here? I don't think there is a whole lot of distress, but relatively speaking sell a very good stuff, keep the older stuff and feed it redevelopment platform and thereby make your IRR hurdle. Is that kind of the mindset for HR in generally speaking about how you're going to approach, almost like a contrarian approach to investing where you are dilutive to start, but much more accretive to end. And as it relates specifically to HR, are you now certainly sitting idly by and see how it plays out. No more activity there. And finally the $163 million break fee that's not paid to HR if something were to happen. Is that correct? So that's my one question.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Sure. You asked three questions and I'll see if I remember all of these. So first is I will say that we invest and I think I said this before, and I'm going to say this is again. We invest and if the two conditions that we had satisfied. One, we think it's at a reasonable basis relative to replacement cost, b, we think we can add significant value on the operational side. These are the two things that needs to come together for us to invest capital, no matter what the two specific ones is.

My view of this hasn't changed. I'm not going to get into buy this, sell that, do this. I'm just not -- that's not just -- that's not appropriate for conversation. It just depends on what asset you were talking about, right? So we're not going to obviously get into that. What I will tell you, what I had mentioned in my prepared remarks. At the price we you know for us, we do everything at a price. At the price that we offered we thought HR shareholders will be much better off than going with HTA merger. That was our opinion, right?

And that's the price was for the assets as well as releasing them from a potential transaction, which all of you have described as a significantly dilutive deal and market voted as such, right? So you got to think about asset plus liability, not just assets. That is the fundamental mistake of characterization of what's happening here. Regardless, that's not as I said that HR shareholders and our Board which is representative of the shareholders not ours, so it is very appropriate for us to keep talking about something, but there is nothing to talk about, right? We're much more focused, as I said about 30, 40 other owners were very happy engaging with us to see how we can transact, how can we have win-win transaction. And I don't have anything more to add to that.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Richard Hill with Morgan Stanley.

Q - Adam Kramer{BIO 21275782 <GO>}
Hey guys, it's Adam Kramer on for Rich. Well, congrats on a really strong quarter here and I appreciate all the commentary. I'm going to keep this on the side from HR. And if you kind of asked about April occupancy trends within SHOP anything you can add about kind of sequential trends in April or second quarter-to-date I think would be really helpful.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
We are encouraged by the April as well as early May trends and we are also encouraged very much where the pricing is going. Remember John's focus is on revenue maximization and frankly NOI maximization. But we are very encouraged by both occupancy and rate trend, I'm assuming you're asking about senior housing, so investing the senior housing portfolio.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Nicholas Joseph with Citi.

Q - Michael Griffin{BIO 6892741 <GO>}
Hey, this is Michael Griffin on for Nick. I'm curious, what do you need to see before being comfortable issuing full-year guidance.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
We need to be comfortable to see that COVID is not around us.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Michael Carroll with RBC Capital Markets.

Q - Michael Carroll{BIO 17527698 <GO>}
Yeah, thanks. I wanted to stay on I guess or touch on the seniors housing pricing power topic. I mean how much higher can RevPOR trend RevPOR growth trend particularly when occupancy gets back into the high 80s or even the low 90% range. I mean, I'm assuming there is only so high you can push rates on the existing residents. But with this dynamic help push street rates higher and then that could drive RevPOR higher? I mean how should we think about that.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Yes. So what you are asking about my favorite topic and you are asking me to venture a guess right. So this is a pure guess and understanding you ask about it. But just start from the position of, I don't know of any other sector where you can have pricing power in the high 70% kind of occupancy or mid to high 70% occupancy range, right? So we're very encouraged what's happening. But today the pricing is driven by the necessity, as I described, a couple of calls ago or maybe last call. On the necessity of keeping up with the quality of service cost of everything is going up, including labor and we do not believe cutting quarter on services. So that's just sort of that what's happening right now.

However, there is going to be at a point not so distant future in probably in that high 80% occupancy rate, where you will be. You don't -- you wouldn't have rooms to sell and then you're going to have a different types of pricing increase, right? So these two obviously provide a very, very good backdrop if you think through what are the development deliveries right that in the next few years are -- a couple of years are and obviously takes a lot of time to bring supply back particularly as you think through what happened, right?

The last sort of nail on the coffin for a development project was the financing cost and that's also now gone completely crazy. So you have cost going up every month 1.5% to 2%. No, I'm going to give you a GMP for beyond these days before you lock something in for more than a week, that's kind of crazy cost environment we are. So in putting it all together pricing card and sustain for a very long period of time in these kind of demand-supply scenarios.

Now, just going back to the street rate conversation. I'll just give one example and one example doesn't obviously is not representative on the whole portfolio. We have seen in April some of our operators have raised street rates by 15% while that in-house rate increases by 8%, 9% to 10%, right? So we are starting to see for at least for a handful of operators street rates has already increases are going above in-house rate increases. A phenomena we haven't seen. I don't hold me to it probably, I don't know, probably 2013, 2014 time frame. So we're pretty excited about it.

We think we have a long runway of price increase here and frankly as we fundamentally believe that our resident expect a lot from us, they are paying a lot and we expect a lot, they deserve a lot and for that it just cost more today.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Nick Yulico with Scotiabank.

Q - Nick Yulico{BIO 16574897 <GO>}
Hi, good morning, everyone. I just wanted to go back to the Senior Housing Operating segment and how we should think about sequential monthly occupancy gains. Wanted to see if we can get actually the specific number for April? And then also as we think about moving into May through September third quarter, I mean, you did make the comment hearing that you expect your year-over-year same-store NOI growth to improve meaningfully in the back half of the year, which would presumably factor in higher sequential occupancy growth and what you're seeing in the second quarter. So just trying to understand about like how we should think about the monthly pace occupancy gains that could happen maybe even in relation to last year? Thanks.

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
Yes. So, Nick if you look at Page 12 of our business update you will see some sense of how seasonally plays out, right? We have laid that out. Obviously, we expect better than seasonal trend -- significantly better than seasonal trends in the second quarter, but where you see the ship really takes off will be in the third quarter. So thinking about it without getting into month to month as I've already indicated.

The selling season -- the summer selling season just started. We see very encouraging signs already and we think it will continue to improve as we go forward. Also remember usually every year in the Q1, sort of when you go into -- from Q1 to Q2 then start at a whole right because you lose occupancy. This year, we did not started a whole. We've been occupancy where you see occupancy decline that will have a tremendous impact as you build a revenue line through the rest of the year.

Tim, do you want to provide anything else?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Yeah, I'd just add that from an average occupancy perspective kind of speaking on that same point John just made. But because 1Q is historically negative, but even in this case, small game average occupancy, which is kind of build off of the prior quarter and the current quarter recovery or accelerate into 3Q and does sell historically. So when we think about kind of sequential, the drive, the part of it that's driven by occupancy will be at its highest in the third quarter.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Austin Wurschmidt with KeyBanc Capital Markets.

Q - Austin Wurschmidt{BIO 17905696 <GO>}
Great. Thanks and good morning. So sticking with SHOP and based on that move in street rates that you mentioned, were up in the double-digit range. Are you considering pushing rate increases even higher on future renewals for the balance of the year? And then, I'm curious if you have a sense how below-market your in-place rents are today relative to market? And does this sort of acceleration in fundamentals make you more upbeat about future shop acquisitions and more willing to take on the initial dilution that you talked about in your prepared remarks? Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Three questions there, but we will welcome to our call. I will try to remember everything you asked. First is, no, it doesn't excite us more or less. Investing is about price, it's not about exposure. I cannot say this million times enough and I recall for you guys to understand how we allocate capital. It is all about price.

We own more senior housing than anyone. We bought more senior housing than anyone in the last 18 months. So senior housing is going to do significantly better. There has been no other beneficiary -- more beneficial than us, right? So having said that you think about the point I also want to make sure you hear me. I said for a specific operator, I don't want you to think street rates are going up 15%.

So everywhere that's not what's happening. But we see broad momentum of increasing street rate pretty much everywhere with every operator. Okay. So let's just put that in the context of understanding how senior housing works, remember you have an acuity creep as people age in place or age in a community. Okay.

So, you will always have the person who is leaving, first the person is coming in as a gap, right? There is a gap, because of that to decrease the frailty and acuity creep. What we are seeing this rapidly rising street rate is closing that gap pretty meaningfully. And we hope that we'll see at some point that gap is going to come together.

But at the same point, understand as we sort of get to the next year, right there's going to be significant in our rate increases again. So you create another gap and you achieve that gap again. That's how you build revenue. So we are pretty optimistic. Generally speaking, the tone of your question is the right one which excites us very much. This moving obviously rates that we are starting to see, we'll see that will be sustained, all things being equal, through the year and we will show up in our topline growth, as well as the NOI growth that Tim and John talked about.

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JP Morgan.

Q - Mike Mueller{BIO 3519301 <GO>}
Yeah. Hi. Just a quick expense question, it looks like your same-store SHOP compensation has been running about 3.25 for the past two quarters. Can you remind us what portion of that would you say is abnormally high because of COVID and agency cost where we could see that portion of it decline in the subsequent quarters?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Yes. So we peaked out at a little over 7.5% of our compensation line was agency in the fourth quarter that came down the high 6s, and we continue to expect that to normalize throughout the year. But just thinking about that from -- I think that's what you're asking. Mike is just kind of what portion of that is agency.

We expect that agency to continue to deflate but remember that gets backfilled by full time hours. So it's not -- it's still be some offset of that from full time employees coming on. And I'll just note that's something that we're certainly seeing progress on coming out of the first quarter and in April. That the focus our operators have put on hiring full-time employees and we all know that's the solution to agency that's why we're seeing progress the agency front. Because occupancy continues to build, so we're not seeing less of a demand for employees in the buildings. We're just seeing an ability to fill it more and more with our own staff versus agency.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
In fact, April probably was the best month we have seen from a net time perspective, but since we started tracking this from the beginning of COVID. So you haven't seen the impact that we're talking about, you will see that obviously in Q2 on a sequential basis. But again, I'm not going to comment on COVID. I have no way to predict but COVID is happening not happening, going. But in a normalized market conditions, you will see that will improve -- will significantly accelerate in the second half of the year.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with BMO Capital Markets.

Q - Juan Sanabria{BIO 7061302 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. I was just hoping we could touch a little bit on the triple-net business you mentioned the Legend transition and a bit of dilution there. But just holistically speaking, how should we think about the potential for further transitions I guess to SHOP at this point. How same-store NOI should track towards that historical 2% to 3% given you're still kind of below that target rent coverage and kind of what you expect that timing to get coverage back to a more sustainable level and those to kind of normalize, the same-store growth in the coverage level?

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
One thing about me that you probably have noticed over the years we know each other than I'm extremely consistent. In 2018, I said there are two portfolios that I hope that we had in RIDEA portfolio, in 2022 I will tell you the same thing. And maybe if I could and convinced last one, I'll keep saying the same thing for years to come.

So you should not expect a lot to change unless we believe there is fundamentally economic reasons to change from RIDEA to triple-net. Fundamentally we believe it's the same business, different structures for different reasons, different growth profile. So when I've gone through this in the call before, so I don't want to waste your time. But that just -- you should not expect a lot more except the one that I hope for many, many years.

So let us now take the second part of your question. So where you are today, Tim talked about it, probably three, four calls in a row now that we have a significant portion of our triple-net portfolio in cash collection, right? And he mentioned when the growth comes back, you will see the other side of it, we have taken it on our chin, by putting in the cash collection and now we're on the other side.

So obviously that the line item for these operators are behaving like RIDEA, right? Because that's what they are, they are cash collection. So on top of that we have a substantial number of leases that are mark-to-inflation and as inflation is going up, so you have overall portfolio is going up. So that probably these two together probably 35%, 40% of that triple-net portfolio and that's why you are seeing obviously that's why not all you are seeing continue to see significant sort of above average growth as long as we have average inflation that sort of in the system.

Tim, do you want to add anything to that?

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
No, I just add one on your kind of comment on coverages and restructuring, so Shankh mentioned we restructured Legend lease in the quarter. We also restructured another triple-net lease in the quarter. And I would think about it from a timing makes sense given what we've talked about in the past, which is our operators were staying current with rent and resetting rent and they're staying current and there is no line of sight in recovery. It doesn't make sense for either party. So I think what you've seen here is an ability to come to table on Legend to get to an agreement that makes sense for both parties and we think is will do very well for Welltower shareholders over time.

But if you look at the Welltower triple-net portfolio coming out of the first quarter mid 80s coverage and a portfolio that 70%, 70.5% occupied. So I think the important thing, the sustainability of that I think is quite high given our view on the recovery. We've said it all along. It's all recovery dependent, but we saw a strong recovery last year we've seen rents continue to be paid. And we think given the occupancy there and the outlook in general in the space and we're coverages are currently at, we're a pretty strong spot as far as sustainability of these rents and coverage recovery over the coming quarters.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with Barclays.

Q - Steven Valiquette{BIO 1928887 <GO>}
Thanks, good morning everybody. So Shankh all your comments on the HR situation where obviously helpful to clear the air. And I guess my question is if the HR HTA merger does close and actually goes through is the existence of that merged entity change any of the strategic dynamics for Welltower in the MOB category that is the positive or the negative that are worth calling out at this stage? Or is that merger related and is expected to be immaterial to either MOB industry pricing going forward or just perhaps material to Welltower's trying to accomplish in the MOB area based on what you've seen now. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Steve, I have no comments on HR-HTA merger. I will say that it remains a fragmented industry that one player size or lack thereof doesn't really make a difference. It health systems of an industry and so it remains a very, very fragmented industry. So I have no comments other than the fact we don't see anything changing. But I will offer a comment that I already have offered and bore you with details of what I've already said. At Welltower, we don't have a strategic acquisition. The only strategy that we have is to make money on a partial basis for existing shareholders. That is the only strategy we follow and anything that doesn't fit to that model. We don't do it, right? So please understand never count on us to do a strategic acquisition, because we'll never will.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI.

Q - Steve Sakwa{BIO 1504010 <GO>}
Thanks. I just wanted to have one follow-up. Tim, when you kind of looked at the second quarter guidance, obviously NOI growth is kind of above FFO growth. And I know you kind of highlighted a couple of issues that seem to be pulling that down FX, G&A and development deliveries. I guess my question really is, as you move into the back half of the year and maybe into 2023, do you see some of those headwinds dissipating and should we start to see FFO growth materially accelerate in line with the NOI growth toward some of those headwinds persist for a bit longer.

A - Tim McHugh{BIO 17010464 <GO>}
Yeah. Thanks, Steve. And I think this is -- this will expand a bit on the comment in my opening remarks around just our continued steady allocation of capital to distressed situations near-term dilutive even developments. The idea that we're seeing, core earnings growth that's really driving the portfolio now and we're making long-term capital allocation decisions that are going to create sustainable growth over a multi-year period. And if I kind of take that and think about it in perspective of this quarter, Shankh talked about same-store NOI growth on a year-over-year basis.

So go back to the second quarter of 2021 on the call I spoke to a $0.77 per share number if you back out, out of period government grants. So, this compares to 3.5% number ex-HHS with our 2Q guide. And I think the right way to think about bridging this is kind of three different buckets. So you've got the core portfolio, which is to your comment on same-store driven by same-store growth 9% cash same-store growth equates to about a levered 10% FFO growth number. Then you've got accretion from investments over the last three quarters.

I mean you got an offset of $0.03 from a combination of higher interest expense, higher G&A and then lower exchange rates on a year-over-year basis. So if you dig in that investment accretion number, a bit more over the last three quarters, we have invested about $4.8 billion in capital and we've delivered another $500 million in developments. So we've had $5.3 billion capital fully funded on the balance sheet as of 3/31 and it's expected to yield in the low 4s and that 2Q 2022 guide. So keep in mind that these assets are significantly under-earning where they're going to be long-term and near-term because of operator transitions and lease up within our recent deliveries and of course agency has also been a factor there.

As these investments stabilized, they represent about $0.10 per share of FFO per quarter or $0.40 annually. So just from the last that kind of three quarter of capital allocation. And last I just note, we've talked about our NOI bridge in our investor presentation. And this is under a third of that upside represented there. So it's kind of a snapshot within our year-over-year growth showing how the capital we are putting to work is just creating the sustained earnings growth over a number of years going forward.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with SMBC.

Q - Rich Anderson{BIO 18827172 <GO>}
Thanks for the follow-up, I had some technical difficulties. So hopefully not repeating a question. But in terms of the use of OP units obviously you're distressed model would imply older assets and hence the attractiveness of units in a deal. How would you model out funding -- would you say the pipeline is $1.5 billion pipeline plus another $2 billion that is under in the works. What percentage of that would be OP unit deals and then how would you timeline the remaining forward ATM equity, just so we can get our models in the right order. Thanks.

A - Shankh Mitra{BIO 18273165 <GO>}
Okay. I I hope I remember all the questions. First, we're not going to get into how many of these transactions will be in OP units or not, we might have given some indication of our previous press releases on some of the transaction. But beyond that, we're not going to get into, how many will be or will not be. We have a general sense, but we're not going to get into that.

But let's just talk about something else that you asked, which is if you think about the pipeline of $1.5 billion under contract, right, think about what Tim said $1.8 billion of capital that's raised in ATM but not settled. We have few hundred million of disposition and that's just the equity piece, right? You add X million that you think will come from the OP side and then on a 65-35, you will see our investment sort of dry powder for investment is actually $3 plus billion today. So that's sort of the question and is there anything else I did not answer.

I can't remember three questions at the same time, Rich. So I think I answered all your question if not just call me on my cell and we'll just walk you through. But we have ample capacity to invest capital that in the pipeline or could be in the shadow pipeline. Pipeline equals to deals under contract, shadow pipeline is what we are negotiating and as I said, all that $2-plus billion we might do zero. Because we transact at our price and the prices is the price. And if we can convince someone to come to our price, we will do that transaction. So very much off, we have the capital raised, but I cannot guarantee you that we apply to any of these transactions.

Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of John Pulaski with Green Street.

Q - John Pulaski
Thanks for keeping the call going. Just one modeling related item for me. Could you give me a sense then what percent of food and utility costs are ultimately passed through the tenant on the SHOP portfolio?

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
It about a pass-through, I guess you mean from like a direct billing.

Q - John Pulaski
Via higher rents, higher rents and higher fee income.

A - John Burkart{BIO 3216163 <GO>}
I'd say all of it were up. We have an operating profit in that business, so you're making a profit Nolan basis. You're certainly seeing part of the rationale for rent increase being to offset inflationary pressures in both of those categories. But those aren't things food is something certainly in a lot of these different contracts. You're highlighting is being separate cost. Utility generally not but that's all wrapped into how pricing for the product works. So I think when we talk about kind of seeing inflationary cost type, rental increases we are talking about the ability to offset the pressure we're seeing in food and utility inflation.

Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.