Q3 2022 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Ben Jackson, President
Jeffrey C. Sprecher, Chief Executive Officer
Katia Gonzalez, Investor Relations
Lynn Martin, President, NYSE
Warren Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer
Other Participants
Alex Kramm, Analyst, UBS
Daniel T. Fannon, Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Kenneth B. Worthington, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Kyle Voigt, Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc
Richard Henry Repetto, Analyst
Presentation
Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Hello everyone. Welcome to to the ICE Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. My name is Charlie and I'll be coordinating the call today, you will have the opportunity to ask a questions at the end of the presentation. (Operator Instructions)

I'll now hand over to your host, Katia Gonzalez, Investor Relations, Senior Analyst, to begin. Katia, please go ahead.

Katia Gonzalez
Good morning, ICE's third quarter 2022 earnings release and presentation can be found in the investors section of the ice.com. These items will be archived and our call will be available for replay. Today's call may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which we undertake no obligation to update, represent our current judgment and are subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties. For a description of the risks that could cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, please refer to our 2021 Form 10-K, third quarter Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC.

In addition, as we announced in May, our (inaudible) to acquire Black Knight, the transaction is pending customer regulatory approval and we expect to close in the first-half of 2023. In connection with the proposed transaction, ICE has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S4, to register the shares of our common stock to be issued in connection with the transaction.

The registration statement includes a proxy statement on Black Knight, that also constitutes the perspective of ICE. Please see the (Inaudible) filings for additional information regarding the transaction.

In our earnings supplement, we refer to certain non-GAAP measures. We believe our non-GAAP measures are more reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. You'll find a reconciliation to the prevailing GAAP terms in the earnings materials. When used on this call net revenue refers to revenue net of transaction based expenses and adjusted earnings refers to adjusted diluted earnings per share. Throughout this presentation, unless otherwise indicated, references to revenue growth are on a constant-currency basis. Please see the explanatory notes on the second page of the earnings supplement for additional details regarding the definition of certain items.

With us on the call today, are Jeff Sprecher, Chairman and CEO; Warren Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer; Ben Jackson, President and Lynn Martin, President of the NYSE.

I'll now turn the call over to Warren.

Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
Thanks, Katia. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today.

I'll begin on slide 4, with some of the key highlights from our third quarter results. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 4%, to $1.31, which was on top of 30% growth in the third quarter of 2021, and marked the best third quarter in our company's history. Third quarter net revenues totaled a record $1.8 billion, up 3% Year-over-Year. While transaction revenues were flat on a Year-over-Year basis, our recurring revenues, which accounted for over half of our business increased by 6%, with all three of our business segments contributing to this strong Year-over-Year growth. Third quarter adjusted operating expenses totaled $727 million and were $16 million below the low end of our guidance. These better-than expected results were driven by favorable FX trends, continued operating efficiencies and a handful of non-recurring items within professional services, SG&A and technology.

Shifting to the fourth quarter, we now expect adjusted operating expenses to be in the range of $730 million to $740 million, with the increase relative to the third quarter, largely reflecting the reversal of one-time items. As you begin to think about 2023 expenses, the midpoint of our current full-year guidance, or roughly $2.948 billion is a reasonable base to build upon. Despite the dynamic and uncertain macroeconomic backdrop the diversity and importantly, durability of our business has enabled us to invest through cycles. And while taking the current inflationary backdrop into consideration, we expect to once again, invest in our people and the many medium and long-term growth opportunities that exist across our expanded business.

Third quarter adjusted operating income totaled $1.1 billion, up over 6% Year-over-Year and is on top of 30% pro-forma growth in 2021. While our adjusted operating margin expanded by nearly 180 basis points, to approximately 60%. Through the first three quarters of 2022, adjusted free-cash flow has totaled over $2.1 billion, up 7% Year-over-Year.

Now let's move to slide 5, where we'll provide an overview of the performance of our Exchange segment. Third quarter exchange net revenues totaled $1 billion, an increase of 8% Year-over-Year, in addition to higher levels of collateral at our clearing houses and thus higher member interest revenues, this strong performance was driven by a 54% increase in our interest-rate futures, a 23% increase in our equity derivatives and a 13% increase in cash equities and options revenues. Importantly, total open interest, which we believe to be the best indicator of longer-term growth, end of the October up 11% versus the end of last year, including 7% growth in energy and 18% growth across our financial futures and options complex.

Recurring revenues increased by 5% Year-over-Year, this growth was driven by strong demand for our energy exchange data and the continued benefit from our record 2021 listings performance. While recent market volatility has led to a pause in new listings business, both the backlog and our conversations with potential partners remains robust and through the end of October, a record 19 corporations represent a combined market cap of nearly $40 billion have chosen to transfer to the NYSE.

Turning now to slide 6. In our Fixed Income and Data Services segment, third quarter revenues totaled a record $534 million, a 14% increase versus a year-ago. Transaction revenues increased by 84%, including 122% growth in ICE bonds and 75% growth in our CDS clearing business. Similar to last quarter, this strong growth was driven by market volatility and rising interest rates, customers allocating additional capital to CDS trading and our continued efforts to build institutional connectivity to our bond platforms.

Recurring revenues, excluding the Euronext migration, grew by 4% in the quarter, driven by demand for additional capacity on the ICE Global Network, as well as double-digit growth in both our consolidated feeds business and our derivative analytics. Somewhat offsetting this strength were asset based revenues and our index business, which declined by double-digits Year-over-Year, as investors shifted out of higher-fee risk assets, such as equities, munis and corporate bonds, and into treasury ETFs.

In addition, extended fixed income market volatility is also impacting growth and a portion of our end-of-day fixed-income pricing business has reduced new issuance, has driven slower growth in the number of outstanding bonds available to be priced. Absent a sharper reversal of these macro trends, we would expect fourth quarter growth to be similar to our third quarter performance.

Shifting to mortgage technology, on slide 7. Third quarter revenues totaled $276 million. Recurring revenues, which accounted for nearly 60% of segment revenues and totaled a record $163 million in the quarter, increased 14% Year-over-Year. These strong recurring revenues continue to drive outperformance versus an industry that experienced in nearly 60% decline in origination volumes. Importantly, data and analytics revenue increased 22% Year-over-Year, with underlying recurring revenue increasing by over 40%.

Similar to last quarter, it's worth noting that industry unit origination volumes were similar to those in the first-quarter of 2019. However, our third quarter 2022 mortgage technology revenues were over $100 million greater, growing at a CAGR of approximately 17% when compared to the pro-forma revenues in 1Q, '19. This is a clear testament to the continued automation and growth and customer adoption of our solutions across the origination workflow.

I'll conclude my remarks on slide 8. Year-to-date, we've grown ICE revenue by 6%, adjusted operating income by 10% and our adjusted earnings per share by 9%, representing the best year-to-date performance in our Company's history. Despite dramatically different macroeconomic environments, over a three year period, you will see a similar story of compounding growth, with ICE revenues increasing at a CAGR of 8%, operating income at 11% and EPS at 12%, again a testament to the resilience and durability of our platform and the all-weather nature of our business model.

As we look to the balance of this year, we're excited about the many growth opportunities in front of us and remain focused on creating value for our stockholders.

With that, I'll hand it over to Ben.

Ben Jackson{BIO 15745850 <GO>}
Thank you, Warren. And thank you all for joining us this morning. Please turn to slide 9. In our financial markets, rising inflation and central bank activity across Europe and the UK continued to drive increased hedging activity, with interest rate average daily volumes increasing 40% Year-over-Year in the third quarter, including a record Euribor futures. In our equity derivatives complex, ADV at our MSCI complex was up 17% in the third quarter, as volatility levels continue to be elevated versus the prior year.

In our energy markets, the third quarter was marked with a confluence of macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties that, when combined with high price volatility, made for a difficult trading environment. Despite these uncertain conditions, we have seen strength in areas like our options markets, our North American gas business and our North American environmental complex.

Options contracts are a valuable tool in a highly uncertain market conditions due to the ability to manage geo political tail risk and the lower associated capital requirements, as we've seen historically. With open interest up 29% versus the end of last year, we are pleased that our customers continue to turn to our deep liquid options markets to manage their risk. The evolving energy supply chain in Europe is increasing the demand for global liquefied natural gas sourced from the United States, driving price volatility in our North American gas markets. Our commercial customers continue to rely on our markets to manage their risk, contributing to a 23% volume growth in our North American gas business year-to-date and an all-time record in North American gas open interest, as we have gained 500 basis-points of market share over the past year versus our peers.

Finally, although our European carbon markets are seeing headwinds due to the aforementioned factors, we continue to see growth in active participants in this market with participation up 7% year-over-year. At the same time, the secular trend towards cleaner energy is also driving growth in our North American environmental markets, with volumes up 6% year-over-year in the third quarter. And because we offer the broadest suite of environmental products across the carbon cycle, we remain excited about our position to serve customers as they navigate the journey to cleaner energy and as the demand for transparent pricing in carbon grows.

Importantly, as we look out over the longer term, we believe that the three secular drivers across our energy markets remain intact. First, increasing energy demand. Second, an evolving energy supply chain and third, the clean-energy transition. And because we operate deep liquid markets across the globe with benchmarks in emerging markets across every source of energy, we feel very well positioned to benefit from these factors.

Moving to our Fixed Income and Data Services business, we delivered record revenues, which grew 14% year-over-year. Our comprehensive fixed income and data platform continues to deliver compounding revenue growth, underpinned by both our recurring and transaction revenues. A testament to the strategic diversification of our business model and our ability to deliver growth through an array of macroeconomic environments.

Turning now to our Mortgage business. In the third quarter, our mortgage business once again outperformed the broader industry, driven by strong recurring revenues. The strength and resiliency that we've seen in recurring revenues has been driven by our new customers continuing to adopt our digital solutions, increased demand for our data and analytics tools and continued strong retention. Our customers remain focused on automation and efficiencies. This focus has led to increased interest in our data and analytics products, contributing to a 22% growth year-to-date in our data and analytics business.

Through our AIQ solution and Analyzer tools, customers can save thousands of dollars per loan by leveraging our artificial intelligence and machine learning tools to drive automation in the loan manufacturing process. We are pleased that the value of our offerings continues to resonate with lenders and we remain optimistic about the long term opportunity to leverage our mission-critical technology and data expertise to accelerate the analog-to-digital conversion happening in the industry.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.

Jeffrey C. Sprecher{BIO 3310847 <GO>}
Thank you, Ben. I want to start my prepared remarks by highlighting our vision of how ICE's contributing to both the U.S. home mortgage and U.S. equity markets to bring increased efficiencies to consumers in these two asset classes. To take you back, ICE was initially founded to build and operate digital commodity exchanges. Modern digital exchanges provide an essential service, efficiently matching buyers and sellers with operational neutrality. Our modern exchanges are regulated, but more importantly, their growth and efficacy depend on the industry's trust of our neutrality. ICE does not take a position on the price of any commodity or security, we simply provide the software and network that efficiently facilitates a buyer and seller finding one another and allows them to determine their transaction price. Today, millions of traders, investors brokers and regulators around the world are attached to our exchange networks. And they all benefit from the transparency and standardization that we enable.

We thought up our launch into the exchange business by building digital data networks to disperse information, separate from our exchanges, networks that thrive on the neutrality and confidentiality of our data management. It is likely obvious to you that our data networks would contain financial information generated by our own exchanges, but it may be less obvious that our growth has been accelerated by opening these networks to third parties, including most of our global exchange competitors, who also access our customer base.

Today, hundreds of third-party exchanges, brokers and market data generators publish their data to users across our networks. Our growth in the U.S. mortgage industry builds on these same management tenants, trust, transparency and neutrality. Our mortgage software and network are open and impartial. ICE has been at the forefront of building a mortgage platform, so that industry participants can better communicate with one another, reduce their costs, pass these savings onto consumers in the form of better prices and appropriately implement the government's homeownership policies. And it is in this vein that we have agreed to acquire Black Knight, to connect their market participants to ours, open up its platform, reduce cost per mortgage origination, overlay the safety and soundness practices that we've developed for businesses like the systemically important, New York Stock Exchange and create new products and services for lenders to increase homeownership, including in underserved communities.

As a part of the budget that we previously guided you to, ICE plans a significant financial outweigh to open and upgrade the Black Knight technology stack, our commitment that we believe would have been hard for Black Knight's other potential acquirers to make, potentially in a contracting mortgage environment. This is the same strategy and commitment that we made when taking over the Mortgage Electronic Registration System, which today has durable and scalable operations and technology built by ICE. Systems that are prepared to manage the difficult risk environment in the U.S. housing market. And as shown on slide 10, these merged processes can identify and de-register failed lending firms, who become zombies to borrowers and regulators.

You may have recently heard Sandra Thompson, the Federal Housing Finance Agency's Director, lamenting how stakeholders in the mortgage manufacturing process seemingly lack the will to adopt technology that changes their entrench methods. This is precisely the challenge that ICE is laser-focused on solving. Gillian Ted pointed out in her book, The Silo Effect, that the U.S. mortgage industry is so siloed, that the federal government's past attempts to help troubled homeowners stay in their homes by reducing mortgage payments, actually exacerbated the foreclosure problem, because lenders lowered monthly payments and servicers mistook this as consumers falling behind and initiated foreclosure proceedings.

As Austan Goolsbee once said, the silos were so strong, they did the exact opposite of what everyone expected. With the explosive growth of the Fintech industry over the last decade, the U.S. has seen a dramatic upsurge in the number of alternative home lenders and mortgage technology providers, who, like ICE, are building solutions to benefit lenders and borrowers.

Slide 10 also shows the number of new lending firms that, just this year, have registered to do business with MERS, and surprisingly, the number of lending firms has increased, in a year where consumer demand for mortgages has decreased. This increased lender competition presents opportunities for ICE to take cost-out of the mortgage manufacturing process, so that these lenders can compete more effectively, passing those savings on to borrowers.

The high-cost of manufacturing and funding a home mortgage that we target are particularly acute for the most marginalized borrowers, which further exacerbates the wealth divide in the United States. Our acquisition of Black Knight remains subject to review by the Federal Trade Commission. ICE has provided the FTC with extensive information and certified its completeness and as is often customary, we agreed to extend the FTC's statutory review period and intend to continue ICE' s cooperation with the FTC staff. Our estimate is that the Black Knight merger will close-in the first-half of next year.

While we will be unable to answer any questions on this call relating to our transaction with Black Knight, please note that our participation in this FTC review coupled with the comprehensive conversations that we've been having with our customer base, has further convinced us that our merger will afford significant benefits to U.S. homeowners and industry stakeholders.

And while on the subject of regulators, I'd like to comment on the recent remarks from the Securities and Exchange Commission focused on the structure of the U.S. Equities market. In his June 8th speech, Chair Gensler noted the key elements of the national market system rules haven't been updated since year 2005. And since that time, the U.S. Equity markets have become increasingly opaque. Today, most retail order flow is executed through OpEx change, bilateral trading relationships with a small number of wholesalers. These wholesalers are able to trade against customers without exposing those orders to competition. In some cases, wholesalers pay retail brokers for the privilege of this first look at their clients order flow. This practice is known as Price Improvement, and it refers to occasions where a trade is made at prices better than the national best bid and offer ticker displayed by the public exchanges, trade that often contain fractions less than one whole penny per share. What's often left out of this price improvement narrative however, is the fact that public exchanges, like the New York Stock Exchange, under current SEC rules, are actually prohibited from displaying orders at price increments, less than one whole penny. As a result, public investors are in fact, prevented from narrowing the National Best Bid and Offer ticker to sub penny price increments. But ask yourself this, is the National Best Bid and Offer ticker really the best market price that we should all be relying upon if investors can routinely by share of stock cheaper than what's displayed? We measure the opportunity for investor price improvement savings to the tune of $1.8 billion a year if there were a simple harmonization of the quote and trade increments across the entire market. We hope that this opportunity will be considered by the SEC.

ICE has been consistent in its strategy of promoting standardization, fair, transparent markets and networks using state-of-the art technology. We embrace opportunities to transform businesses to create efficiencies and lower customer costs, not only in home mortgage but even in a 230-year-old business like the New York Stock Exchange.

I'll conclude my remarks on slide 11. The third quarter of this year has been marked by rising inflation, fluctuating interest rates and central bank activity, concerns over energy and food security and global political uncertainty. And I can't think of any firm that has been better-positioned to help manage these risks than ICE. Our customers rely on our data, technology and liquid markets to navigate through this environment.

In the third quarter, we once again grew revenues, grew adjusted operating income and grew adjusted earnings per share. These record-setting third quarter results against our extraordinary third quarter results of last year reflect the all-weather nature of our business model. We have intentionally positioned the Company to provide customer solutions in numerous geographies and economic conditions to facilitate all-weather results.

I'd like to-end by thanking our customers for their continued business and their trust. And I want to thank my colleagues at ICE for their contribution to this record third quarter, following-up on our unsurpassed first half results.

And with that, I'll now turn the call back to our moderator, Charlie and we will conduct a question-and-answer session until 9:30 Eastern Time.

Questions And Answers
Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
(Operator Instruction) Our first question comes from Richard Repetto of Piper Sandler. Richard, your line is open. Please proceed.

Q - Richard Henry Repetto{BIO 1901226 <GO>}
Yeah, good morning, Jeff, Ben and Warren and first thanks for the comparison, Warren, on the mortgage technology performance versus unit originations. That's helpful. But as we dig in, you outperformed again against unit origination. Can you give us a little bit more detail on which lines? In the -- outperform, like data analytics, we'd expect that to be 100% recurring and that's been outperforming but like the other has been flat and we expect that to be all variable. So the question is, what's getting you to outperform the unit originations and within which lines in mortgage?

A - Ben Jackson{BIO 15745850 <GO>}
Sure, Hey, Richard, it's Ben. So as you can appreciate, our whole hypothesis on this deal and, what we've been doing in the mortgage space is all directed towards a long-term view of taking one of the most analog asset classes that there are and turning it digital, and that's what we believe over the long-term will enable us to achieve that 8% to 10% growth. And the contributors underneath that are really -- we're very focused on product innovation and in particular, helping our lender, lender customers, lower costs, become more efficient and as we do that, we're hoping that the savings that those lenders achieve are then brought down to their clients, the end consumer, and will translate into better product selection, it will help to lower cost for the end consumer, it will help enable them to get the best products at the most efficient prices to meet their needs and achieve the dream of home ownership. So that's from a long-term perspective what our focus has been and where we're making our investments.

Overall, what's driving our ability to beat is the intentional shift towards subscription revenue. So if you look across each of the segments that we have, we're pushing very hard to move more and more of the revenue in each of those reporting segments, more towards subscription when we can. And one of the things I'll highlight in terms of success this last quarter, even with all the headwinds that the industry has had, two-thirds of the customers that renewed in the third quarter renewed at higher subscription base levels by the end of that quarter than they were at the beginning of the quarter.

The other thing I'd say is that, it has been a difficult environment, it has been a difficult environment and despite that, we only saw a small, single digit percentage of our clients not renew, and most of that's due to M&A, industry consolidation and closing up shop.

But one of the things we've seen as a positive for us, with some of the backdrop of this industry consolidation as some of these companies and their employees have been downsized, some of these impacted personnel have used it as an as an opportunity to become an entrepreneur and start a new lending shop, and those are opportunities that we compete for and we've won some of that business on encompass this past quarter.

So, we've seen sales success in origination on encompass, both in the smaller startup companies to mid-market, as well as banks, so that said a lot of what's going on in our origination process, our origination line item and reporting line item, as well as the fact as we've more-and-more of that revenue to a subscription and we have very low attrition.

In the data and analytics area, what's really fueling our ability to beat there is the same. So data and analytics does have historically a transaction element to it. We have been moving this line item very similar to our origination line item, more-and-more towards subscription as clients renew. And as we signed new clients, make sure that we're tilting those deals much more towards subscription revenue.

And the big piece of products that we have in that area is a product called AIQ, that's the product that's automating a lot of the underwriting processes. And that's a big area of where today, we're generating around $1,400 of savings in originating alone, a lot of it is anchored in this area of automating the underwriting process for our customers.

I mentioned that in the second quarter we signed JP Morgan Chase, that's going through an implementation on this and this quarter, we had several wins across different segments that we sell to from banks, non-banks and credit unions, and we had a significant win with Loan Depot this past quarter, which they, like many lenders, are trying to get the efficiencies that our platform will provide to them. So that's a little bit of a flavor in some of the segments of what we see under the covers.

Q - Richard Henry Repetto{BIO 1901226 <GO>}
Thanks Ben, thanks for the detail. My follow-up question would be in the Exchange segment. I don't know whether this is for Jeff or Ben, you know, the energy complex, not just you, industry-wide continues, at least perplexed a lot of us with the volume performance there, and again, it's not just you, it's industry but Jeff or Ben, could you give us a little bit more insight into -- you're making up a good part of the volumes grow in financial futures and cash equities and options but like the gas oil contract, I believe it's down 40% year-over-year and this idea of higher-margin causing corporates and speculators to pull back. Could you give us some more color into the energy complex, and specifically gas oil?

A - Ben Jackson{BIO 15745850 <GO>}
Sure, Richard, it's Ben again. And you alluded to it in a way that you asked the question around, the way that we manage this business is from looking at the overall portfolio and we have a wide lens on this and we pride ourselves in having deepest and most liquid futures markets, to enable our customers to manage risk across the energy spectrum, also in the global rates environment, so we manage our business as an overall portfolio. And that's the nature of that all-weather aspect of our stock.

In energy specifically, which is where you were going, we manage the energy segment as a portfolio and we're proud to say that despite all these headwinds, our energy business itself, open interest is up, when you look across, the entire business is up 6% since the end of last year. And this is in the backdrop of a confluence of all kinds of issues that the world is dealing with right now, you have this unfortunate war, you have on and off lockdowns in China. You have a push to move towards cleaner energy sources, you have under investment in energy infrastructure, you have major releases from the strategic petroleum reserve, all rearing their head at the same time. And we're proud that now more than ever, our clients are coming to us to manage their risk. And I'll touch on a couple of areas within energy, and you asked specifically about gas oil, so I'll touch on that as well.

So, broadly speaking, we've positioned our business to help clients manage their transition towards a cleaner energy environment, that's why we have the most deep liquid markets around the globe in oil, natural gas, power, LNG and environmentals.

In oil, we have seen some headwinds. you focused on gas oil and you're spot on, gas oil has had some headwinds. Most of this is associated to the market needing clarity around how Russian oil deliveries into the contract would be handled, because historically, Russian oil did go into that contract. We work with governments and customers to come up with a market-based solution to this and also landed on sanctions regime that we aligned to, that at the end of this year, Russian oil can no longer be delivered into that contract. Once we did that and provided clarity to the market for that, we have started to see open interest rebuild in that contract in calendar year 2023 and beyond. So that's a positive, it's going to, take some time for that to play out but we're seeing that on the horizon, we believe that's going to turn the corner.

Within oil itself, expanding further across what's going on in the portfolio, we've had some very positive developments, so our options contracts have done very very well. Brands alone have seen options volume up 14% Year-over-Year, and part of the reason for that is that options contracts enable a trader to hedge a whole range of outcome, it enables them in an efficient way to manage geopolitical risks and there's also a little bit of a lower margin requirement associated to these because if you're buying an option, your risks on that option is limited to the premium that you pay. So all of that's incorporated into the into the margin models.

So we've seen a lot of success in our options markets. And we have new innovations. We continue to build our Murban contract that we launched. And we're continuing to hit records consistently with our Midland WTI Gulf Coast contract that we launched early this year, so we're having some good success and continue to build-on that.

The other area I'd touch on quickly would be natural gas. So our natural gas business you have to again, expand the lens and look at it from a global perspective. I mentioned U.S. gas is at a record and up 23% in volume. In -- globally, our natural gas business is up 16% and 6% NOI. And some of the inputs to that, our TTF business has seen some headwinds because Russia has historically supplied 40% of the gas to Continental Europe and the supply has effectively been cut-off. But what's filling the void? The U.S. LNG is filling that void for Europe and that's fueling strength in our North American gas complex, as commercial customers are trading our Henry and our Basis markets significantly, and also a, lot of those LNG cargoes that are going to Europe, are hedged via our TTF contract, our Henry Hub contract, Basis markets, as well as our LNG markets.

And the last thing I'd say on the gas markets is that we're innovating and working on-market based solutions with Europe as we understand the situation there. And we announced just recently, we're going to be launching some new contracts, new Basis contracts in Italy, France and Germany in gas to trade alongside our existing Continental gas business and then in Northwest Europe and Southwest Europe, our LNG contracts that will trade alongside our JKM contract. And it's important that -- the feedback we're getting from our clients is that all of these contracts are likely to trade basis and relative to our TTF deep liquid price benchmark.

Q - Richard Henry Repetto{BIO 1901226 <GO>}
Got it. Thank you for all the detail, Ben.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Thank you, our next question comes from Ken Worthington of JP Morgan. Ken your line is open please go ahead.

Q - Kenneth B. Worthington{BIO 3303320 <GO>}
Hi good morning thanks for taking my question. I'd like to spend a little time on the old (inaudible) business and the European rate complex, we've seen inflation in Europe and the highest rates in more than a decade, so maybe first, bring us back, what was the peak of revenue generation for the European rate business back when rates were much higher? And then, do you think the opportunity here is bigger or smaller today for that franchise given the underlying market?

And then CME launched ESTR futures, I think earlier in the week, which I think it seems like on your turf, so can you talk about the potential for investment in the rates business and product development do you think this is sort of an attractive use of resources and what are you thinking from here?

A - Ben Jackson{BIO 15745850 <GO>}
Hi, Ken, it's Ben, I'll start here. So when you look across our rates business, the way we look at it, we manage it -- we manage it as a portfolio, we look at, in particular, the largest parts of our rate franchise are with our SONIA gilts business, as well as LIBOR, and underneath the covers, when you look at what's been going on geopolitically, and the overall environment, Continental Europe has actually done a pretty good job of signaling how they're going to handle this rates environment, and the market has responded very well to that and that's what's led to just a very very solid year in terms of your LIBOR volumes, as well as open interest, as that is up over 60% on a year-over-year basis.

So that part of the business has done extraordinarily well. If you look at the U.K. specifically, and Gilts and SONIA, there's two dynamics going on there, with SONIA specifically, when you're comparing our performance with last year, you have to remember that last year, we had both short sterling and SONIA trading side-by-side. And this year, and then those converged in December of last year. So this year, you have SONIA only, so it's a bit of an off comparison, there was a significant amount of arbitraging going on between SONIA and short sterling as that convergence was taking place, and now you have SONIA as a standalone.

In the U.K., though, specifically, obviously, there has been political uncertainty there, you've had the change of Prime Ministers, you've had uncertain rate hike expectations, you had the mini budget that shocked a lot of people, you had a potential currency crisis, all hitting at the same time. And that definitely weighed a little bit on SONIA and Gilts but we're already seeing signs that the market is stabilizing as the environment has stabilized there.

So we feel very good about that overall rates portfolio that we have, it's definitely an area we're continuing to invest, we have our own SOFR contract that we've launched as well. And it's an area that we're going to continue to invest and we see opportunity.

Q - Kenneth B. Worthington{BIO 3303320 <GO>}
Okay, if you recall the size, is there a lot of opportunity to grow it versus what it was a decade ago or and that's sort of the peak of what do you think this can be?

A - Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
So again we'll go-ahead and get you the exact number there, but I think it's certainly approaching where it was years and I think the record would have been sort of '08, '09 or that kind of a range in terms of the revenues. We've certainly made some adjustments to RPCs in that complex too and there has been some pressure from FX this year so.

I think we're kind of we're approaching to where it was and we're around those levels but I do think that the world is a lot bigger and different than it was back then and so I think as you think about the future. there is certainly room in what is effectively, certainly on the LIBOR side, the second-largest reserve currency for that complex to grow well into the future regardless of what the prior level would have been.

Q - Kenneth B. Worthington{BIO 3303320 <GO>}
Great. Thank you very much.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Thank you, our next question comes from Daniel Fannon of Jefferies. Daniel, your line is open. Please go-ahead.

Q - Daniel T. Fannon{BIO 7135149 <GO>}
Thanks. Good morning. So, couple of questions just on the Fixed Income Data business. So the execution as well as the clearing has seen pretty strong activity this year, you mentioned higher rates is that, you talk about just participation levels, customer growth, other areas or are these really more just kind of external factors kind of finding more of a tailwind?

A - Lynn Martin{BIO 6219754 <GO>}
Hi, Dan. This is Lynn Martin. Thanks so much further question. And absolutely, volatility has been a tailwind for the execution side of the business, with record levels of CDS clearing so far in 2022, but what we're really -- what we continue to be really excited about is the pickup of activity in our ICE bonds platform, where as a result of the continued Fed rate hike, you've seen tremendous volatility in fixed income markets globally and ICE bonds is the beneficiary of some of that volatility, particularly in our treasury, our muni, our corporate bond, our CD business, where you've seen record levels of activity and volatility. In fact, activity measured on a volume perspective is almost 200% up in Q3 versus last Q3.

And a very important factor though is how we broaden out the participation in those platforms, particularly focused on institutional customers and in Q3 alone, in our muni market, you saw the levels of institutional participation grow by 192%, so that just continues on a trend that we've seen as a result of thinking about particularly the muni markets as an ecosystem and driving additional institutional participation across our platform.

Q - Daniel T. Fannon{BIO 7135149 <GO>}
Understood. And then, on the data and analytics side. I think Warren, you mentioned fourth quarter being kind of flattish with the third quarter in terms of growth, citing the, I think, lower bonds outstanding as a part of the factor. I guess, could you, remind us of the pricing model, I thought this was more of a subscription based model, more recurring revenue associated with customers not bonds outstanding, and I guess make -- provide a little more clarity or understanding in terms of how we think about the outstanding bond versus kind of customer growth and other things in terms of drivers of revenue?

A - Lynn Martin{BIO 6219754 <GO>}
So, Dan, this is Lynn again. I think I'll start-off and then turn it over to Warren. Thanks for the follow-up question because I think what you're pointing to really illustrates how we build businesses to be all-weather businesses. We talked about the volatility in the markets being a significant tailwind for our execution side of the business but it's been a bit of a headwind for our fixed income, data and analytics line, whereas Warren said in his prepared remarks, f you think about our index business, we've seen assets flow out of our higher capture Indices, specifically equities, corporate bond and munis, and assets flow into indices where we have a lower capture rate, specifically our treasury indices. In fact if you look at the AUM benchmark against our indices, it's actually at an all-time high but the mix has significantly changed which impacts the revenue.

And as Warren said, another headwind we're seeing that's affecting the Fixed Income Data and Analytics line is the new bond issuance, which slipped in fixed-income this year so that has impacted the growth rate of our legacy PRD business, which has continued to grow albeit at a much slower rate. That said, volatility again, has been a tailwind for the other part of our data services, particularly our other data services line, where you see various factors increasing to what we believe is outsized growth in that line, including 22% increase in demand for capacity in our ICE Global Network, as volatility continues to require customers to have reliable, resilient connectivity and higher bandwidth connectivity, double-digit growth in our consolidated feeds business, double-digit growth in our data analytics business, which provides transparency to opaque asset classes, and outsized growth in our desktop platform, specifically our chat platforms as ways that customers interact with our markets continue to modernize.

A - Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
And Dan, I'll just add to that just to give you a little bit more color on the consumption effect, there is a subset of customers that do take or consume I should say based on the number of securities that they are priced in the fund holdings that they have typically, will be custodians and participants such as that, a lot of them honestly, holding most if, not all of the bond market if you will, and so as the bond market in size fluctuates, and this isn't necessarily related to refinancings, which will be sort of cancel and replace, it's more around new issuance and the growth of the overall bond market, whether it's corporates or Muni's or structured products, as that fluctuates and it tends to be sort of lower-single digit growth over the years, that will help or to some extent hurt the growth in that component of our subscription business, but again, it's a part of the -- it's only a portion of the overall PRD business,and the overall data business at the end-of-the day that that applies to.

Q - Daniel T. Fannon{BIO 7135149 <GO>}
Understood. Thanks for the detailed answer.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
(Operator Instruction) Our next question comes from Kyle Voigt of KBW. Kyle, your line is open. Please go-ahead.

Q - Kyle Voigt{BIO 18796617 <GO>}
Hi good morning. Just wondering if you could comment a bit more on the health of your customers in the mortgage tech segment? You mentioned earlier in the call, that there were some customers that didn't renew, mostly to shuttering or consolidating but we're really in the beginning phases of what could be a long and challenging volume environment, so I guess the question is, if the current mortgage environment remains extremely challenging over the next year, do you still believe you can grow the recurring revenues year-on-year in that segment and offset client attrition or should we expect some slowdown on that part of the business as well?

A - Ben Jackson{BIO 15745850 <GO>}
Thanks Kyle, this is Ben. We do feel confident in our ability to grow the business over the long term horizon of that 8% to 10% and I think this past quarter is a perfect example to point at. You had the market down year-over-year close to 60%, and sequentially it was down north of 25%. So very tough environment for clients and yet, as we approach them about shifting more of their the economic model that we have with them, more towards subscription, even if it costs us some transaction revenue, they are willing to do that and that's why we were able to get two-thirds of the customers to renew. And in this environment, low-single digit customers didn't renew. So. I think that's a very good sign and a testament to the resiliency of the business but also the mission critical nature of the technology that we provide. So from that standpoint, see it is all positive. The other thing that if you go back to the slide that Jeff referred to in his comments and you see what's happening with some of the churn and new lenders that are starting up, as some of these personnel are impacted, there starting up new lending shops and we're seeing growth in terms of new lenders this year, it's the population from that MERS graph that Jeff showed is higher than it was last year. So that is a testament that there's new start-ups coming up on the scene, as these folks start-up, they want to adopt automation and the most efficient way to to set-up their businesses and we're well-positioned to win that business, albeit it's a competitive environment and we compete with others for that but we had wins in that environment.

So we expect some of that churn to continue but where there's customers that potentially go out of business, there's also startups that happen on the backside of it.

A - Jeffrey C. Sprecher{BIO 3310847 <GO>}
And this is Jeff. And let me just -- in the past earnings presentations, we've shown you the demographic trends that are going on in the United States, and yes, there are higher interest rates, yes there are supply-chain issues for homebuilders, uncertainty for homebuilders but there is a unbelievably large demographic of people in this country that are starting new households, having children, getting married, moving on with their lives. And that demographic trend one way or another has to be satisfied with a place to live and so I think what you're really seeing on a macro basis is us building solutions to deal, in part, with that population.

Q - Kyle Voigt{BIO 18796617 <GO>}
Understood and in terms of follow-up, I just wanted to follow-up on Dan's prior question, just regarding the Fixed Income ASV growth decelerating to 4% in the quarter versus 5.5% last quarter. I appreciate the additional color on the index business and the headwinds that's facing, but in terms of quantifying that, was that really the entirety of that kind of deceleration that we saw from 5.5% to 4%, or were some of the other aspects that you mentioned also playing a role into that when we look sequentially?

A - Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
So, hey Kyle, it's Warren. So, there are couple of things there. I mean certainly, the macro headwinds we talked about on the AUM side and some of the pricing business but also don't forget Euronext is part of that as well but if you adjust for those, I mean look ASV adjusted for those was around 5%, was closer to 5% for the quarter, so we feel pretty good about that business given what's going on within fixed income markets at the moment. And again, don't lose, and Lynn mentioned this, but don't lose sight of the overall segment results, where the segment was up 14% year-over-year from a revenue perspective, we're up 12% year-to-date in that business, operating margins in the quarter or operating income in the quarter I should say, was up about 30% and margins grew by 6 point so. So overall we're very happy with the performance of that segment and a lot of the factors that are weighing on what we're seeing on the pricing side and on the index side or was benefiting for us on the trading side. So those results this year are some of the best. we've had ever and so we're pleased with the results of the business overall.

Q - Kyle Voigt{BIO 18796617 <GO>}
Understood thank you.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Thank you, Kyle. Our next question comes from Alex Kramm of UBS. Alex, your line is open please go-ahead.

Q - Alex Kramm{BIO 6910027 <GO>}
Yeah, hey good morning everyone. Want to come back to Richard's question on the energy performance, Ben, in your answer, it almost sounded like you blame Russia-Ukraine situation almost entirely what you're seeing the underperformance there, so that almost sounds a little bit structural, so I just wanted to make sure there are other factors that you can maybe isolate or even point to some green shoots, I don't know, is it margins having to come down? Is that volatility may be coming to more normal levels or what would you -- what we think needs to happen for maybe that business to, in its current form, perform a little bit better unless it really is structural or something has changed?

And then quickly, there is more talk of price caps in Europe as well, so just wondering how you view those in terms of impacting your business because, generally speaking, somebody interfering in market forces, it's usually not good for volumes so just maybe those two additional areas in energy?

A - Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
Thanks Alex. I think what you're seeing, I'll give a, little more color on some of the things underneath this but, what you're seeing is that a lot of these sanctions regimes have not been put in place, so they're being put in place, for example, gas oil earlier. it's at the end of this year that those oil deliveries cannot happen. So you have some traders with prompt months coming up right now and end-of-the year that just won't touch those contracts until this gets through and that's why I also highlighted in the earlier question, that we're starting to see open interest build '23 and beyond in the gas oil contract as an example.

In natural gas, I think the things that I look at and that are encouraging to me is that when you look at our TTF business and you look at October of last year versus October of the month that just passed. The number of active market participants that we have in TTF is exactly the same. We haven't lost any market participants that are trading TTF. So that to me is a sign of longer term strength in the business as the situation -- as the situation clears. We've also, at the same time, grown our data subscriptions in TTF double-digits, in that same-period of time, so there's more eyeballs and more people paying attention to it.

So from a longer-term perspective, we feel good about the positioning of these contracts, as I had mentioned, we're launching new contracts with those new Basis gas locations in Italy, Germany and France, as well as the Northwest Europe and South West Europe. LNG contracts, feedback from traders are all going to price relative to TTF, so we feel good long-term about that as well.

On price caps that you also mentioned, look, we understand the severity of the situation in Europe. We are in very active dialog at the table with government and with regulators and commercial customers to forge a market-based solution to these issues and we know -- our role is to create deep liquid futures markets to provide important price signals on supply-and-demand dynamics as they are changing, to make sure that people have the best pricing tools to hedge and manage their risk.

Through our discussions, and you can also see through media, that's happened over the last couple of weeks. There is an acknowledgment, broadly, of the issues with price caps and just a general agreement that they don't want to disrupt the price discovery and so a lot of the issues that are being highlighted in these articles, and that we've been expressing and commercial market participants have been expressing, as well as several governments, are that an artificial price limit on the commodity makes it very difficult to accurately hedge commodity price risk.

Second would be if you're -- that -- to put price caps in these markets, you could end up having the unintended results of taking volume and liquidity from transparent lit markets and moving it to the OTC markets reversing a bit more than a decade of progress that's been made here. If you create an artificial price in this settlement, the settlement and the clearing houses, it makes it difficult for clearing house to manage the accurate risk that we're exposed to if it's dislocated from what the real market price is of that position. And it can create an artificial price and over encourage consumption, which is not what people are looking for right now and obviously these markets are global and suppliers can go elsewhere.

So that's why we're at the table, we're encouraged that recent rhetoric, because they understand a lot of those issues and risks and we're in the middle of putting forth market based solutions, which is why we're proactively launching all these contracts in December and are continuing in the middle of the dialogs to help the situation sell.

Q - Alex Kramm{BIO 6910027 <GO>}
Thank you. I appreciate the incremental color. Just one quick one for Warren, then. It seems like your revenue is benefiting from higher rates directly more, so I was just hoping if you can remind me what the magnitude is? I think in the OTC and other line on the exchange side and then on the CDS business, you got net interest income, so maybe some underlying data you can give us in terms of the balances and the rates you're getting, what rates you're mostly sensitive to in Europe and in the US? Because obviously the rate picture is fairly dynamic these days so just wanted to make sure we understand how to model that better.

A - Warren Gardiner{BIO 18036655 <GO>}
Sure so in terms of OTC and other about if you look at the second quarter about half of the increase would have been related to member interest and I'll just say two within not only just the CDS business but also within our clearing house is we're not trying to be a bank, the service we're providing is clearing and risk management and that's the value that we're providing to those customers, and so we're actually -- we're trying to lower collateral levels where we can, Ben mentioned pushing people or I should say leading people towards the benefits of options.

We're working on trying to expand the different types of collateral that we accept as such as acceptance such as with some of the emissions allowances and so we are still start we are starting to see a little bit of normalization in some of the collateral levels as we sit here in October but it's just difficult to predict where that's going to go. You know it certainly is part of a significant part of OTC and other but there are a lot of other elements to that line-item as well. So it's been the driver of some of the growth we've seen but it's certainly not the vast majority if you will of the total line at the end-of-the day.

And then the same will hold for the CDS business, where certainly it's helped as --as collateral levels have built there but we're also as you would imagine, seeing really strong trading volumes across that business -- clearing volumes across that businesses and certainly as the headlines around recessions and interest rates continue to build, the demand for credit risk and credit protection is increasing alongside that.

So that's been really a bigger driver of things over a longer period of time than anything else, and don't forget too that in the third-quarter, that's a role quarter as is the first-quarter so we benefit a little bit from that as well relative to maybe the second and fourth-quarter in that business. The other area I would just point out to, is if you go below-the-line, we are actually benefiting a little bit from the cash-on-hand in our -- the interest that we're earning on the bonds that we have -- sorry, on the cash we have on-hand, so there has been a benefit that from an interest-rate perspective as well that's flowing through the income statement.

In addition, of course, to the benefit we get on the futures side from higher rates within LIBORS and some of the UK interest-rate businesses as well.

So there's a number of different things across the platform, of course, as rates are rising, that we're benefiting, that may be offsetting some of the areas that tend to not do as well during higher-rate environments.

Q - Alex Kramm{BIO 6910027 <GO>}
Great I'll follow-up for some of the detailed rate stuff. Thanks.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Thank you due to time constraints, that was our last question of today. I'll now hand back over to Jeff Sprecher, for any closing remarks.

A - Jeffrey C. Sprecher{BIO 3310847 <GO>}
Well, thank you, Charlie and thank, everyone for joining us this morning. We'd really like to again, thank my colleagues for delivering yet another record quarter and thank our customers for putting your faith in us during these very uncertain times. We appreciate your business. We look-forward to updating you all again as we continue to execute on the opportunity set that we were able to talk to you about today. And with that, I hope you have a good day.

Charlie{BIO 1521412 <GO>}
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect your lines.