Q3 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
James Quincey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
John Murphy, Chief Financial Officer
Tim Leveridge, Vice President, Investor Relations, Financial Planning and Analysis
Other Participants
Andrea Teixeira, Analyst, JPMorgan
Bonnie Herzog, Analyst, Goldman Sachs
Bryan Spillane, Analyst, Bank of America.
Carlos Laboy, Analyst, HSBC.
Chris Carey, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities.
Dara Mohsenian, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Kaumil Gajrawala, Analyst, Credit Suisse
Kevin Grundy, Analyst, Jefferies
Lauren Lieberman, Analyst, Barclays
Nik Modi, Analyst, RBC
Robert Ottenstein, Analyst, Evercore ISI.
Sean King, Analyst, UBS
Steve Powers, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
Presentation
Operator
At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola Media Relations Department if they have any questions.

I would now like to introduce Mr. Tim Leveridge Vice President of IR and FP&A. Mr. Leveridge, you may begin.

Tim Leveridge{BIO 18918729 <GO>}
Good morning and thank you for joining us today. I'm here with James Quincey, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Murphy, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, please note, we've posted schedules under the financial information tab in the Investors section of our company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures, which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion, to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.

You can also find schedules in the same section of our website that provide an analysis of gross and operating margin. In addition, this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent periodic SEC report. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Please limit yourself to one question. If you have more than one, please ask your most pressing ones first and then reenter the queue.

Now I will turn the call over to James.

James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Thanks, Tim and good morning everyone. After a strong first-half of the year, we saw continued momentum in our business in the third quarter. While the global recovery remains asynchronous, our people and our system are leveraging the learnings that we have a good result and emerge stronger. And while markets are different stages of reopening around the world, our local businesses have been increasingly resilient through restrictions and lockdowns.

As a result, our underlying volumes have accelerated on a two-year basis with quarterly growth versus 2019 for the first time when the pandemic began. This improvement has been supported by our transformation agenda which set us on a powerful, more efficient and effective marketing as well as more disciplined and intelligent innovation. We are investing accordingly behind our portfolio of loved brand and are seeing signs of early attraction.

Given strong result year-to-date and increased visibility into the rest of the year, we expect to deliver organic revenue at the high end of our previously provided range and are raising bottom line and cash flow guidance for the full-year. This morning, I'll provide a business update and discuss how our networked organization is executing well in this dynamic environment. Then John will discuss our financials and rate guidance and some early considerations for 2022.

In the first-half of 2021, mobility and business levels improved in many markets, as lockdowns ease and vaccination increase. The recovery has not been a straight line and continues to be uneven around the world. Despite the asynchronous recovery in the third quarter, our volume surpassed 2019 levels for the first time since the pandemic began.

Although, not yet back to 2019 levels as a percent of our business, we saw sequential improvement in our away-from-home volumes on a two year basis as consumers return to many of their form of routines.

At home volumes also showed ongoing strength even as away-from-home channels improve. The quarter was off to a promising start in July with the Delta variant impacted several markets, resulting in a softer August followed by improvement in September, as the variant began to lesson some of our key market.

The pandemic continues to be a key factor across our operating environment. In addition to the ongoing pressure point in our supply chain. However, our network system would leveraging the learnings from the past 18 months, sharing best practices and skillfully executing by applying revenue growth management and working our supply chain levers to capitalize on the strength of our brand and mitigate disruption.

The industry is growing and we continue to gain share. Our overall value share improve year-on-year and remains above 2019 levels. We are pleased to report gains across categories as well as both within at-home and away-from-home channel.

Our operating units are combining the power of scale with a deep knowledge required to win locally in an environment that remains dynamic. So diving a little into the key drivers across our geographies. Starting with Asia Pacific. In China, media investment across categories are yielding promising sign. Results in the quarter reflects strict COVID lockdowns of some weather related disruption in August while September mark sequential improvement.

Japan state of emergency was lifted at the end of the quarter after consumers spent the majority of 2021 in lockdown. Strengthened execution across our teams and innovation has helped lessen impacts and our consumer base has grown beyond 2019 level.

In India, we participated strongly in the recovery by focusing on affordability and omnichannel growth through EV to be. We grew both Trademark Co and local icon Thums Up using effective marketing activation.

We have share gains in RGM and the South Pacific operating units despite pandemic related restriction all of its top market. Our investments behind Sparkling flavors and Coca-Cola Zero Sugar will continue to create value when lockdowns are lifted.

In EMEA, in Europe, we gained value share across nearly all categories as restrictions ease. While weather a slower recovery in tourism and the Delta had an impact, our global campaigns, the key brands including Coca-Cola Zero Sugar, Sprite and Fanta help drive Sparkling share.

As vaccinations accelerated in Eurasia and the Middle East, we maintained momentum through effective revenue growth management initiatives, resulting in top line that expanded faster than the macro environment in those top markets.

Our results in Africa were balanced across regions and categories during this quarter, despite a third wave of the pandemic that resulted in target lockdown. Vaccination rates remain on the low side relative to the rest of the world, and our focus remains on affordability and single-serve packs as mobility increases in countries like Egypt and Nigeria.

We maintain strong momentum in North America, despite the COVID resurgence in many state leading to stalling consumer sentiment and supply chain challenges that resulted in both missed opportunities and incremental cost.

At-home channel remains healthy and although away-from-home growth accelerated early in the quarter. Labor shortages have constrained capacity with some on-premise customer. Recent price actions to offset higher input costs have been effective with lower than expected price elasticities to date. And promotional levels remain below 2019.

In Latin America successful commercial initiatives including affordability pack increased availability of our key product and strong customer execution in both modern and traditional trade drove volume growth across all major markets amid of improving COVID environment.

Improvement in single-serve mix some pricing actions and connecting brand strategies to on-premise customers to drive further recovery in the away-from-home channels all contributes to strong price mix.

Within global ventures, cost of benefit is from retail store recovery as the U.K. reopens. With improved reach and frequency for its enhanced loyalty program. Costa continues to expand across platform into new market in partnership with our bottler resulting in growing brand awareness.

Our Bottling Investments Group performance was driven by India and the Philippines. VIG strict lockdown in several market, as well as rising inflation, but it's continue to see share gains year-to-date in South Africa. The worst impact have been well managed through package and category mix improvements along with cost controls preserving progress on our operating margin during the pandemic.

Global category team are working with our operating units to build an engine to drive effective marketing at scale and innovation, which we amplified across the world. Highlights from this quarter include Coca-Cola, Zero Sugars new recipe has rolled out in more than 50 countries and has had accelerated growth in the last three months.

In September, Trademark Coca-Cola's new global brand philosophy Real Magic was unveiled featuring our refresh iconic logo, the hub. The Real Magic platform takes a digital first approach and our execution feature a range of experiences that are tailored the Gen Z and leverage passion points like gaming and music to attract the new generation of drinkers.

Sparkling flavors gain share in the quarter, driven by investment in targeted brand country combinations with a focus on occasions and Zero Sugar offering.

In China, Sprite volume growth was accelerated by leveraging the global Let's be Clear campaign during some of music festivals. Similarly, WhatTheFanta campaign focus is on snacking and is driving growth across all key metrics in Europe.

Hydration sports, tea and coffee categories are seeing a good return on spend behind global brands. AHA's expansion into new market this year had shown flexibility to adapt to local customer and consumer needs. In advance hydration functional benefits of help the stretch brand power and drive share for Aquarius as it becomes more of a global brand. Tea and coffee have had success with FUZE Tea in Europe and both Ayataka and Costa Ready-to-Drink in Japan. There is an opportunity to recover share in Georgia coffee as the at-work occasion returns.

AdeS portfolio gain share this quarter, help by Minute Maid pulpy performance in China, Del Valle growth in Latin America, and strong results across brands in Africa. In dairy fairlife is set to become the first billion dollar brand in our dairy portfolio and has recently launched its joint venture in China.

Our experimentation with Topo Chico Hard Seltzer is expanding and we're gathering valuable insights globally, including the importance of building the category in regions where it is nascent. We are seeing encouraging performance where the flavored alcoholic beverage category is growing rapidly and we have on shelf presence.

Molson Coors recently announced a national rollout of Topo Chico Hard Seltzer in the U.S. with new Margarita flavors. We also recently announced the expansion of our relationship with Molson Coors to bring the brand into Canada. As the pandemic recovery has progressed we've seen challenges and disruptions in many parts of the world. In addition to inflationary forces that could persist. We have years of experience in dealing with these types of environments and are enhancing our strong capabilities that enable us to do so. We are using the crucial tool of revenue growth management in its many forms and are executing in collaboration with our bottling partners.

We continue to refine our ability to optimize price and package offerings going to occasions, brand and channel striking the right balance between premiumization and affordability. In addition to streamlining our portfolio targeting more disciplined innovation intelligent experimentation and transforming our marketing model. We're also building strong digital capability. We have taken an enterprise approach and are progressing on the rollout of multi-category eB2B platforms with our bottlers globally. As an example, Wabi is seeing strong growth outside its home market of Latin America. That's more than 50 categories contributing meaningfully to its sales on the platform.

Additionally, we are delivering outsized growth very powerful and growing omnichannel presence across regions. We're driving incremental instance with partners like foodservice aggregators. North America for example has grown attachment rate by mid-single-digits with third-party and restaurant owned platforms. And we are gaining share in e-commerce with significant wins in Eurasia and hitting record levels in Latin America this quarter.

I'd also like to reiterate the sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy and is a key driver of future growth. In 2018, when we launched World Without Waste through today. We've made much progress against our pillars to design, collect and partners to deliver against our goals.

Our commitment to reduce waste globally is also closely connected to our climate ambitions because collecting more empty packages, using more recycled material, light weighting our models, and using plant-based materials are always we are embracing the collective effort to decarbonize the global economy.

We strive to provide stakeholders with clear progress against our goals through our annual business and ESG report and our World Without Waste report, including using the Global Reporting Initiative SASB and TCFD reporting framework as well as disclosures through other publicly available avenues like CDP and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. We continuously revisit our ESG reporting and disclosures to ensure our leadership position.

We do not take our responsibility lightly. And we carefully and thoroughly vet long-term objectives with our system partners and only commit new goals with a clear, actionable plan. To ensure we remain transparent and responsive to this evolving landscape, we'd like to invite you to join us for our Virtual ESG event on November the 3rd were key business and sustainability leaders will provide an update on our initiatives and answer your questions. As we look at our year-to-date performance through the system. It's clear that we are emerging stronger from the pandemic delivering solid results on the more network structure.

Now I'll turn the call to John to discuss our third quarter result, our updated outlook and some initial thoughts about 2022.

John Murphy{BIO 6797308 <GO>}
Thank you, James. In the third quarter, we delivered another set of strong results building on the momentum we've seen this year. Our Q3 organic revenue was up 14% with concentrate shipments up 8% and price mix of 6%. Price mix was led by strong pricing in North America and Latin America and further improvement in away from home channels in many market.

Unit case growth was 6% with absolute unit cases ahead of 2019 levels for the first time this year. And a sequential improvement versus the second quarter on a two-year basis. Concentrate shipments outpaced unit cases in the quarter due to inventory build by some of our bottling partners to manage through near-term disruptions. Comparable gross margin for the quarter was up approximately 160 basis points versus prior year driven by pricing in the market, positive mix and timing of shipment.

Despite some pressure points in the supply chain, we're successfully pulling the levers at our disposal to mitigate impacts to the best of our ability. We continue to invest as many markets reopen during the quarter. And significantly stepped up our marketing dollars versus prior year. As a result, our comparable operating margin compressed by 40 basis points year-over-year more than offsetting the flow through from the strong top-line.

Below operating income, we saw a some leverage come through from the other income line. And a lower tax rate for the quarter that was driven by our updated effective tax rate for the full-year to 18.6% from 19.1% previously. Putting all this together third quarter comparable earnings per share of $0.65 was an increase of 18% year-over-year including a three point benefit from currency. We also delivered strong year-to-date free cash flow of $8.5 billion.

Given our strong results and with one quarter remaining, we have good visibility and our raising guidance for the full-year. We now expect to deliver organic revenue growth of 13% to 14%, which is at the high end of our previously provided range and comparable EPS growth of 15% to 17% in 2021.

Our updated guidance for free cash flow of approximately $10.5 billion represents significant progress over the past few years and particularly during the COVID era. This progress is further dematerialize as follows. We expect to achieve this year a dividend payout ratio below our long-term target of 75% of free cash flow for the first time 2015. We anticipate delivering another year of free cash flow conversion above 100%.

Finally, our expected free cash flow has almost doubled since 2017. Our improving cash flow position will allow us to be even more vigorous in persist of our capital allocation priorities. First and foremost to invest in our business. Secondly, continuing our track record to grow our dividend. Thirdly, to seek opportune M&A. And finally with excess cash to repurchase our shares.

So as we think about Q4, a few things to keep in mind. One, the recovery phase looks different around the world. And we expect that to continue. Two, we continue to see a minimal commodity impact due to hedges we have in place for the remainder of the year. Three, from a marketing perspective, we expect to increase consumer facing marketing spend toward levels similar to 2019, while improving the quality of that spend and allocating us in a more targeted manner. Four, our currency outlook continues to contemplate a tailwind of 1% to 2% to the top-line and approximately 2% to 3% to comparable EPS in 2021 based on current spot rate and our hedge position.

Last but not least, our current full-year guidance has built in the leveling out of our concentrate shipments that are running ahead year-to-date due to timing, considering that we have six fewer days in the fourth quarter. It's not typical for us to provide commentary on the year ahead at this stage. But I would like to highlight a few points regarding 2022 given the dynamics, we are already seeing. While, there are puts and takes to consider from the pandemic looking into next year, we're confident in the underlying top line trajectory supported by our transformation work, our innovation agenda and a more efficient and effective approach to marketing. Along with this ongoing momentum in revenues, we also expect to see some higher costs, we're not immune to the commodity inflation that has been impacting the world for the better part of 2021 nor the rapidly changing environment.

We've been successful with hedges that were put in place to mitigate the impact of input cost inflation and those will begin to roll-off in 2022. Based on current rates and hedge position, we'd expect commodity inflation to have a mid-single digit impact on our cost of goods sold in 2022. We've been proactively accelerating our revenue growth management and productivity levers to offset some of this pressure as we look out to next year.

And we're closely monitoring the moving parts in the supply chain to ensure we are well positioned to meet demand.

Moving to marketing dollars, we'll continue to invest purposefully in our brand and markets to support top line growth with spend more heavily weighted towards consumer-facing activity. Regarding currency, if we were to assume current rates and our hedge position there would be an approximate two to three points currency headwind to revenue and a two to three point headwind to earnings for the full-year of 2022.

Of course, volatility remain and several factors could have an impact on our currency outlook between now and February. Overall, as vaccination continue to progress globally, we're in a better position today to navigate this environment and we feel good about the potential for our business. We look forward to coming back with more specific guidance after the fourth quarter.

In closing, I'd like to acknowledge more than 700,000 men and women of the Coca-Cola system, this tremendous dedication and hard work have been instrumental to delivering the strong results in the first nine months of the year. The alignment of our system and its test navigation through a challenging supply environment and an asynchronous pandemic recovery has been key enablers to emerging stronger.

We're confident in our updated guidance and our ability to further leverage a strong capability to drive sustainable top line growth and maximize return. With that, operator, we are ready to take questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.

Q - Bryan Spillane{BIO 2147799 <GO>}
Hi, thank you, operator. Hey good morning everyone. I appreciate the commentary on the cadence through the quarter and even giving us a little bit of some pieces to look at '22. But if we can just. I think one of the questions we're getting now is just kind of the business momentum and maybe how it's come progressed as we've moved into the fourth quarter, so maybe if you could give a little bit more color on just how you're seeing that the business currently and also just some perspective on how you see that momentum going into '22 given not just the pandemic, but also inflation in pricing.

And so, just some context about how the business is going so far this quarter, but also just your perspective on that going into '22?

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure. Good morning, Bryan. Firstly, we clearly have been executing some emerging stronger strategy and you can see that coming through. We've called out that the third quarter was the first quarter to be growing versus in a full-quarter versus 2019. So a sequential improvement as we've been going through this year from the first half, which was below 2019 third quarter, which was above. So it's clearly sequential improvement is coming through as we have adapted our ability to cope with the ups and downs of the lockdowns and the reopenings.

Now in the quarter, as you say, we called out that July started well and then August was softer, there were more lockdown and then September was better. When you think about where that's going in the fourth quarter and into next year, I mean clearly, the fact that we have raised or clarify guidance on revenue to be the top end of the range should lead you to feel confident that we see visibility in the downhill of the rest of this year.

October has started strong and in line with expectations, so we feel good. The momentum is there, I mean I made the caveat as many other people have done through COVID that who knows what could happen in the downhill with variance and with lockdowns. But at the moment what we see is the momentum is there. We feel good about our top line guidance for the year and October backs up that that statement and then as it goes through 2022 obviously too early to call the full-year, next year and we will do so in February, but again in the comments, in the press release, in John's comments we said we feel that we have momentum in the business.

Again, the caveat solved who knows what will happen with variance, a potential lockdowns but we do see that world emerging from the crisis a bit like an Earthquake, you get more aftershock, but the consequent aftershocks tend to be smaller than the early ones and that's kind of how we see 2022 is, we feel there is good momentum and the strategy is working and is getting us back on track.

Q - Bryan Spillane{BIO 2147799 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.

Q - Lauren Lieberman{BIO 4832525 <GO>}
Great, thanks, good morning. I wanted to just talk a little bit more maybe about supply chain, last quarter you talked about isolated pressure points and definitely offer commentary say that you're able to tap into supplier relationships and so on, but I was just curious, I guess A, what's the thought that the bottlers continue to try to build inventory, not just in advance of 4Q. But even looking into '22 that you kind of maintain this disconnect between them concentrate shipments and unit case volume, but also to talk a little bit on the packaging side of things, and what the system is able to do to have better access to the range of packaging options because I know things have been tight all year.

But it sounds like they're getting worse. And so just curious what you could offer us and what you guys are doing to be able to manage through that so well? Thanks.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure, Lauren, I'm not sure I used word isolated last quarter, but I know what you mean. Look firstly, we have a lot of capability of managing through crisis. This may be a unique and global one but most Managers and leaders of Coke have some time in their career managed a part of the world or a country that's gone through severe dislocation. So we have built capability over the years to manage through this and in particular in the supply chains, organizations of the company and with the bottlers and so we have strong capabilities.

We look for long-term partnerships with the ecosystem of the supply chains, whether that's imports materials or logistics, we also act as a system in a number of regards. We have something called a cross enterprise procurement group which buys key commodities on behalf of the company and the bottlers is a great deal of coordination between ourselves and the bottlers. In terms of the problems it's a bit like whack a mole, things pop up.

We've told previously about can pressure in U.S. self evidently this issues in shipping and freight and availability of labor in places, then you get one that pops up, the price of gas spikes in Europe and the availability of CO2 comes of the pressure, there was a PET plant went offline because it burst into flames in Brazil et cetera, et cetera.

So there is a heightened degree of sporadic problems appearing as well as kind of structural shortages of certain ingredient, but we have global scale. We have global coordination and we have long-term relationships with many of our ecosystem partners that are allowing us to manage and offset what's going on. Now as regards the bottler inventory towards the end of the year, clearly, we are working with the bottlers, and obviously they can have the comfort on the assurances, they don't necessarily need to hold it in their hands to be certain of having it as a system. We obviously ourselves being a kind of the key player in providing the construct and make sure we have enough buffered availability of ingredients and concentrate to make sure the bottlers are going to be in a good position and we manage that accordingly with them in every year and particularly this one.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.

Q - Dara Mohsenian{BIO 3017577 <GO>}
Hey, guys. The thoughts around topline and volume recovery, you mentioned earlier for 2022 were helpful. Can you spend a bit more time discussing the pricing environment that you're seeing also in the U.S. other developed markets and then in the developing markets, obviously, we're seeing a pretty unique spike in commodity cost in terms of the magnitude.

So how is your system approaching pricing in this environment given that unique level of increase and specifically for Coca-Cola itself is the expectation that pricing can generally fully offset commodity increases on a dollar for dollar basis makes any demand elasticity secondary impact given you don't have as much commodity exposure is the entire system and net share in the retail pricing moves. And then also maybe can you just detail the competitive pricing environment you're seeing from your key competitors? Thanks.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
I'm pretty sure that's adds up to more than one question, but I'll give it a go Dara.

A - John Murphy{BIO 6797308 <GO>}
Multipoint.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes. Multipoint, first point. We as a matter of course I mean there is inflation every year, but we approach it from the point of view going, our brands need to earn the right to adjust their prices each year, whether that be because of the marketing, the innovation, the execution, the investment in the marketplace or the pressure on COGS or the pressure on labor inflation. So as you can see from our numbers, I mean we are pulling all the levers of price and mix and marketing innovation each and every year and so that is the starting point as we think forward into 2022.

Secondly, we see the environment of pricing, for example, the U.S. and largely everywhere else, was pretty rational, whether that be what competitors are doing or what the retailers are doing with their own label brands. And so we see our approach as owning the rights to take the price that creates value for ourselves, the system and create value for the retailers and creates value for the consumers, and that's our starting point.

Yes, we did take an off-cycle increase in the U.S. obviously slightly different by brand, by pack, but certainly in the high single digits starting in August. The elasticities were perhaps a little better than they were last time you may remember the -- whatever it was four or five years ago, we took an off-cycle price increase in U.S. when there was a very strong adjustments in the logistics market in the U.S. that called everyone a great deal of problems.

And so we pass that through this time and we will be looking at exactly what level our pricing needs to be for 2022, but again the COGS push through is a piece of the puzzle. And we certainly intend to earn the right to take the pricing for the brands in the packaging.

And that is true in other parts of the world. I mean obviously depending in the emerging markets on the level inflation in the marketplace you got some double-digit inflation places where there might be more than one price increase during the year, but in the other developed markets again you see this approach earning the right to take the price based on the brand, the pack occasion the channel and really driving that through.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Steve Powers with the Deutsche Bank.

Q - Steve Powers{BIO 20734688 <GO>}
Hey, thanks, and good morning. Maybe pivoting back to volume for a minute. You mentioned obviously the 3Q volume has finished ahead of '19 for the first time since the pandemic started is obviously happy achievement. I guess what I'm wondering if there's a way as the frame where 3Q volumes finished indexed to '19 in terms of at-home versus away-from-home or future consumption versus immediate consumption.

I guess I'm trying to get a better sense conceptually of how much further runway there may be in the away-from-home and immediate consumption side of the business recovering which obviously has both volume implications, but also beneficial price mix implications. Is there a way to frame -- way to think about that from your perspective?

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, sure. I just look -- Q3 is above 2019 in volume. If I look at the mix of the business between away-from-home and at-home, the away-from-home has not yet recovered to the same share of mix that it was in 2019. And so, of course, implicit in your question is, is that a tailwind going forward as more of the away-from-home recovers because of either the package or the brand or the occasion that is related to. And then, excuse me, the answer in some expenses. Yes now, worth bearing in mind, but it's not a snapback, which is what you're saying.

It's not just a function of lockdown when the lockdown ends the away-from-home comes back, I think we're seeing an evolution of the landscape, you're going to see some, I'll call it away from home is a series of a whole set of sub channels, you're going to see some of those sub channels were actually over the last two years, almost two years now, there has been a reduction in the number of outlets and so our hypothesis is, it will take time to see those outlets re-expand, reappear and so it won't just because the lockdown end doesn't mean the outlet reappears. So we'll see some of that.

But of course, there'll be some channels that are not yet fully opening a much of travel and kind of hospitality that a whole series of sub channels that are still running far below the 2019 level. So, yes, it's a tailwind going into the future, but it's not dependent just on the end of lockdown, but I think it'll if you imagine a curve.

We've got the snapback has happened and now it's going to be a little more of a smoothing of the curve to recover the rest of the away-from-home because in people's habits have changed. Like I said, it's an evolving landscape. I mean, what degree of more permanent at-home work we're going to see, not quite clear. So I think we've got a big piece of it, let's say halfway back of the mix and there's another half to come, but it won't come overnight, it will come over time.

Q - Steve Powers{BIO 20734688 <GO>}
Perfect, thank you.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Market.

Q - Nik Modi{BIO 7351672 <GO>}
Yes, good morning everyone. James, I was hoping you can kind of give us an update on the reorg and all the changes that were made. I mean, do you have all the right people in the right seats now, and how is the organization adjusting to kind of the new decision making matrix. Can you just provide us an update there, just some of the feedback that I've gotten is that we still have being broke out. I'm just trying to get a better understanding of timing on when you think you'll kind of be optimally running under this new network structure?

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
I'm not sure I would have a call as arriving at the destination of ultimately running by the time we get there, something else will have changed in the world and will need to make some tweaks and evolve.

Certainly we stood up the organization in the first quarter and it was off to a good start, is very much on track with our expectations. As you say, I would expect that to be some bumps and some kinks that need to be worked out on, that is what we're going through at the moment, and it's not that all of the change has happened yet we've been running, I mean all of the marketing team have been running a big agency review through this year. We're coming up on the final decisions on that in the fourth quarter which will start bringing a structural amount of change next year in the way we interact in our marketing kind of the enabling spend ecosystem.

So, there'll be more change, and we will continue to that. So we're focused on working out the bugs of the bids, we've already stood up, we'll be bringing more change in terms of how we get the marketing sorted out next year.

And I'm sure things will happen in the marketplace that will cause us to want to make further evolutions, but where we certainly see that the early signs of how the new organizational model could help us both deal and manage through the crisis, whether it's what we've done on the supply chain or the procurement, but also set us up ultimately this is all about being an enabler to give us confidence in driving and delivering on our long-term growth.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Goldman Sachs.

Q - Bonnie Herzog{BIO 1840179 <GO>}
All right, thank you. Good morning, everyone. I was actually hoping you guys could talk about whether or not you have a competitive advantage during a period of rising input and transportation cost relative to your peers. Given your asset light or asset right re-franchise model, I guess I'm thinking about this in context of your preliminary outlook for FY '22 as it relates to COGS pressures. And then curious to hear, I guess how you're working with your bottlers who really are experiencing pretty sharp cost pressures to essentially help them navigate through this tough environment. Thanks.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, let me start with the system and then will look back to the company. Obviously, we're working with the bottlers on a collective basis and individual and country basis and I draw a distinction because on a collective basis, as I mentioned earlier, we have a unit called cross enterprise procurement group which works on behalf of the system globally offs and the major bottlers to procure the key input costs, whether it be Resin, Aluminum, sweeteners, whatever it would happen to be and that's not just about buying, it's about the hedges and the pricing and the security of supply.

So there is a tremendous activity in coordination with the bottlers on the principal input costs. Then of course we work locally with the bottler in the countries taking into account all the other factors that go into how we might want to approach pricing whether that's the other cost, the more local cost, logistics, labor et cetera, et cetera and our agenda for marketing and innovation and execution, our agenda and come up with a plan to make sure that we drive that into the marketplace into the brand, own the right for the pricing that keeps them attractive to the retailers, attractive to the consumers and drives the business for us.

And then obviously within that, the company itself has a skew to certain ingredients, because we are asset light or we own more certain businesses like the juice business vertically integrated in U.S. and win in Europe, then necessarily aluminum. So we do have an exposure into cost which is why we pulled out what we pulled out, I think the competitive advantage is not whether the company necessarily is asset-light model or has only certain commodities. We ultimately we're system with our bottlers where the pricing is taken by the bottler under the company follow that along.

I think the advantage is the global scale, the experience in managing through these environments and the ability to work with the supply ecosystem and create value for the retailers and the consumers.

Q - Bonnie Herzog{BIO 1840179 <GO>}
All right. That makes sense. Thank you.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with Credit Suisse.

Q - Kaumil Gajrawala{BIO 20703548 <GO>}
Everybody, good morning. Could I please follow up on Bonnie's question as it relates to the incidence pricing model and maybe some of the new models that we're putting in recent years. How does it work in this environment, because the pricing is of course still taken by the bottlers, but I guess the relative price inflation, the relative cost inflation is much higher at the bottler, then it might be for yourselves. I understand that you take it as a system. But how does that work from instance pricing perspective, does it still hold and that you're able to follow on wherever the bottler does in the marketplace or are there tweaks being made for what right now seems to be a bit of an abnormal situation.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
No, the incident model works is the incidence model and which to be clear is generally speaking that the company's revenue on any particular brand or package as a percent of what the bottler is getting is not the same percent necessarily on every brand or even every package but it is a percent and then over time, this has proven to be a great way of maintaining alignment and shared interest in driving value for the company and the bottlers local management.

So when a brand or a package or a channel or occasion grow, it's good for both the bottler and the company and if we decide to push on something that's more affordable, it delivers less for the bottler and the company. So the incidence is proven to be a tremendous vehicle of getting the franchise system to focus on creating value in the marketplace. Over time in certain environments, the rest of the cost structure puts a little more pressure on the bottler or a little more pressure on the company, depending on what's going on, but we don't course, micro course correct the incidents for small problems or potentially medium problems.

We look at it holistic view of making sure the bottler system is structurally sound, it's got the right capabilities, the right ownership and the right capacity to invest in the marketplace. So it's something completely pushes the thing off track, we are in a different situation. Otherwise, we and the bottlers don't manage for the short-term, we do manage the short-term, but we think about it in the context where we're going. long term and manage through short-term effects.

Q - Kaumil Gajrawala{BIO 20703548 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Andrea Teixeira with JPMorgan.

Q - Andrea Teixeira{BIO 1941397 <GO>}
Thank you and good morning everyone. James, I wanted to go back to your pricing commentary, if you can talk to your ability to continue to take pricing or if the actions you took so far, including the one you alluded to in North America in August will suffice to mitigate the additional mid-single-digit cost pressures in 2022 and how do you see the balance in between bringing back promotions to historical levels into 2022 for the at-home consumption? Thank you.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, thanks for that. Obviously, we're not at the stage of providing an outlook on pricing and promotion levels in 2022. We'll do that when we get to February certainly what we did in North America address the immediate 2021 issues in North America as we did in other parts of the world wherever it was in the world, we would have addressed the cost issues on the brand pricing issues wherever we were.

Again I think the important thing, the pricing approach is to own the right to take the pricing for the brands, they earn that, the equity pricing earns the right pricing and that's the combination of bearing in mind the cost inflation, the input cost inflation, the labor cost, the logistics cost, what we need to invest in marketing, what we need to invest in innovation, what we need to invest in execution. And what we need to invest in coolers and routes to market and that all goals in the equation of taking the pricing that we have earn to take, and that is the same balancing equation that we will look at for 2022.

Q - Andrea Teixeira{BIO 1941397 <GO>}
Thank you.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Carlos Laboy with HSBC.

Q - Carlos Laboy{BIO 1506984 <GO>}
Yes, good morning everyone. James, you mentioned strong U.S. pricing several times in our Southwestern U.S. market recently, we also saw a major step up in revenue management execution from pre-pandemic level, it's really sophisticated price structures that we're seeing.

Can you give us a more broad based North American assessment of how you see the market development capability of the U.S. system improving over the next couple of years and I guess what is the system going to be doing differently to keep driving this market development capability forward?

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, sure. Well, thank you for those observation call up on the visits presumably Texas was something like that, as you all know there is long kind of reserve in Latin America, we certainly have been trying to fuse together what the best, what the U.S. system does with some imported thinking from Latin America on RGM and on the ground up and down the street execution. As we look forward into U.S. clearly, we are trying to bring the combination of more investment into marketing and brands.

More innovation target to the marketplace back with the increasing use of RGM to be more sophisticated in the price and the mix opportunity but also back with ongoing improvement in the execution capability, not just in the larger stores or with the larger away from home upon those but also up and down the street with the smaller stores and really being within an arm's reach of job, but within a clicks reach of desire. And I think the system is to continue at the back of that as we go forward.

Q - Carlos Laboy{BIO 1506984 <GO>}
Thank you.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Robert Ottenstein with Evercore ISI.

Q - Robert Ottenstein{BIO 1498660 <GO>}
Yes, thank you very much. First just a quick point of clarification, if you could give the break out of price mix in LatAm how much of this price mix in channel. And then my more substantive question some really great progress on the free cash flow side, significantly higher than your initial guidance. Can you talk about some of the drivers there. Are you where you need to be in terms of cash conversion at this point? And are these level sustainable? Thank you.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure. I'll do the three. I'll do the price mix and then John can take the flowers and the laurels on doubling the free cash flow in the last few years. Price mix in Latin America, clearly there is a big component of rate in the third quarter and part of that is driven by inflationary pricing in Argentina. But in the quarter channel and price mix up -- sorry, channel and package were both positive to mix as was the timing of some of the reduction.

And so, yes, it is rather an anomaly. I think particularly in the case, I mean it's generally true for the company that don't over rotate the quarterly pricing, particularly in emerging markets where there can be a tremendous amount of volatility, because obviously we're quite far back in the supply chain. So I would encourage looking at places like Latin America on a kind of a more multi-quarter basis. Given the volatility, the one can get in terms of a price fall mix, given where we are in terms of what shifts where. But generally speaking there is mainly operational price and mix and there is a little piece inflation in Argentina. John?

A - John Murphy{BIO 6797308 <GO>}
Thanks, James. Yes, on the free cash flow, clearly pleased with the progress we've made. Looking forward a couple of observations on our free cash flow conversion. Our long-term algorithm has free cash flow conversion of 90% to 95% range. And I still believe that's the right level for us to be pitching up. This year is better than that due to some specific items through the year our marketing accruals in '21 were very much higher than '20 as the marketing spend, returns to 2019 levels. Incentive compensation was down for obvious reasons in 2020 due to the pandemic impact. We -- as I mentioned on the call earlier, we anticipate some headwinds on Forex going into '22.

So taking all that into account, I would expect this to be still able to deliver against the range that we've outlined in the long-term algorithm. Some of the drivers Robert in the last couple of years we've made a lot of progress on working capital. We've talked about that in the past. We continue to do so. In a strange way, the one area that we are below over I would like to be is on inventory, but in the paradoxical where that's been actually a good thing to have more buffer around the world. And so in the immediate short-term, going to like it that way, but it's an area that we will continue to attack over time and in a number of areas.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Sean King with UBS.

Q - Sean King{BIO 20892205 <GO>}
Hey, thanks for the question. I (inaudible) can get your thoughts on some of the puts and takes to your bottling systems DSD capabilities in a context of some of the pressure point that other CPGs are having and keeping store shelves stocked particularly around the coming holiday season. I mean is it safe to say maybe absorbing some higher costs, but the potential for share gains?

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, clearly there is some pressure in the marketplace in terms of the logistical capacity. And obviously with the holiday season tending to see demand go up, that's going to come into sharper focus as we go into the next few months. We are well set up. I think we are advantage competitively. I would like to see us as you say, make gains in not just the share of the visible inventory, but in the share of the sell-out as well. We will see some of that is limited by some of the supply constraints. If we want to talk about the U.S., there is still -- it's still tight on cans, it's still tight on hot fill resin.

And so there is some limitations to what can we have it, but clearly as we sell lots of different brands in lots of different packages. We have the opportunity to make sure we can get the shelves full, if not with absolutely everything we'd love to see on this shelves. At least the shelves will be full with the vast majority of the things we would like to see on the shelves. And we can manage through it. I mean if there is tremendous demand and shortage of deploy cost, one logically starts to wonder whether you need all the promotions that one can think off. So there is a balancing all, if it cost slightly more to get stuff there because there are kind of shortages, then you don't need as much promotion. So I think there is a lot, there are a set of puts and takes here, which will allow us the system to have a good holiday season.

Q - Sean King{BIO 20892205 <GO>}
Great. Thank you

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure.

Operator
Your next question is from the line of Chris Carey with Wells Fargo Securities.

Q - Chris Carey{BIO 21810941 <GO>}
Hi, good morning. I just wanted to follow-up on this outlook for mid-single-digit inflation going into next year. I mean conceptually spot prices are decidedly higher than mid-single-digits. Perhaps I'm reading that dynamic wrong, but if I'm not. And this simply function of your global scale the ability source and massive kind of reason prevailing. You just noted that inventory constrained a free cash flow, but it's actually a buffer, which is helps you actually in the state inventory position. So just, I guess any perspective around that would be helpful, because this is a dynamic, we've been seeing where spot is actually quite a bit worse and how companies are looking at the go-forward and, and I'm just curious on perhaps why that is the case. And why you might stand out in this regard? Thanks so much.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, two things to bear in mind. Let me start with the company and talk about the total system. We, the company obviously skew as I mentioned earlier, in terms of the commodities that flow through our P&L most directly. And bear in mind the biggest commodities are flows through the company's P&L is actually juice. The cost of buying juice whose spot price is not shut up. It was not projected to shoot up as much next year as this year. It has obviously increased in '21 over '20, but it is looking more in the range that we've talked about going into 2022. So from the company's perspective our biggest commodity is not what that the spot price of it for next year is not wildly projected to be out of line with what we're talking about in terms of increases.

And then obviously we bought, we buy a whole set of other things which are expected to go up. So, I do want to also encourage you to remember that we don't buy heavily on spot, that is not our objective. (inaudible) we given our scale in most commodities, especially as a system. We look to buy on a long-term basis not just hedging on a long-term basis or multi-quarter basis.

But, buying with partners and making commitments on a long-term basis to. And so we don't go up and down with the spot market on a day-to-day basis. And that means that the system also has the ability to lock in, while still inflation rate in 2022 whether we're talking about PET or metals or sugars or corn syrup that they're all going up in 2022, but it's not the sky is falling.

Q - Chris Carey{BIO 21810941 <GO>}
Okay, thanks so much.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Sure.

Operator
Your next question, or final question is from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.

Q - Kevin Grundy{BIO 16423871 <GO>}
Great, thanks. Good morning everyone and congratulations on further progress in the quarter. James, I want to pivot to the energy drink category and your broader strategy there as performance energy brands have accelerated industry growth and taking share from brands like Monster. So clearly your stake in Monster underpins the company's broader strategy, though you've also obviously rolled out Coke Energy, AHA with caffeine, you're rolling out cost of RTD coffee in certain markets like to get your updated thoughts on one how the category is evolving into your overall level of satisfaction with your energy drink strategy, particularly some of these niche and upcoming brands are gaining market share from brands like Monster. Thank you.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
Yes, sure. Let me distinguish clearly, between the energy drink category and the energy or recharge niche state as you mentioned the series of brands as well. As it relates to the energy drink category, obviously we have a very successful partnership with Monster, that has created tremendous value for us, for the bottlers and in particular for Monster, and I think that's driven loss that's, yes, they have been in the U.S. some recent competitive entries, which seem to be both expanding the category, and taking some share.

Obviously, you see in numbers, I know they have announced for this quarter, but at least the numbers, they've announced for the first-half so far this year. You can see, they continue to grow strongly this year on top of growing last year, so it's -- there is a lot of success, and I'm sure they'll talk about on their call how they're responding to marketplace dynamics, and obviously with the system look forward to continuing to drive success with that partnership.

As it relates, to the broader energy need state or recharge need state consumers, clearly that's growing, it has been growing a pre-COVID and is still growing, whether that be as you say, ready-to-drink coffees or some of the caffeinated waters. We see a lot of focus and opportunity for growth there.

Cost to ready to drink is done, Costa Coffee ready-to-drink has done well, where we've launched it, a hard looks has done well in the launch in China, certainly there is kind of caffeine introduced a number of different beverages here in the U.S. And so we do see ultimately, the kind of recharge need state whether that satisfied with an energy drink or Coke Classic or AHA with caffeine or a Fairlife chocolate milkshake that has been a long-term driver of growth in the beverage industry and we expect it to remain so.

Q - Kevin Grundy{BIO 16423871 <GO>}
Very good. Thank you.

A - James Quincey{BIO 15756380 <GO>}
You're welcome. Okay. I think that was the last question. So to summarize, we are confident, that the world begins to move beyond the pandemic will deliver against our long-term growth model, consistently and sustainably over time. And for putting our new marketing model interaction to shaping a strong and enjoying innovation pipeline from our digital initiatives to our important sustainability agenda, we are working in alignment with our bottling partners with the power of our people and we are poised to drive growth of scale for the entire system for years to come. So thank you for your interest. Your investment in our company and for joining us this morning. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.