Q1 2024 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Amy Weaver, President and Chief Financial Officer
Brian Millham, President and Chief Operating Officer
Marc Benioff, Co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Mike Spencer, Executive Vice President of Investor Relations
Srinivas Tallapragada, President and Chief Engineering Officer
Other Participants
Brad Sills, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Brent Bracelin, Analyst, Piper Sandler & Co.
Brent Thill, Analyst, Jefferies
Elizabeth Porter, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Karl Keirstead, Analyst, UBS Securities
Kash Rangan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co
Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group
Mark Murphy, Analyst, J.P. Morgan Securities
Raimo Lenschow, Analyst, Barclays
Presentation
Operator
Welcome to Salesforce Fiscal 2024 First Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. (Operator Instructions)

I would like to hand over the conference to your speaker, Mike Spencer, Executive Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us today on our fiscal 2024 first quarter results conference call. Our press release, SEC filings, and a replay of today's call can be found on our website. With me on the call today is Marc Benioff, Chair and CEO; Amy Weaver, President and Chief Finance Officer; and Brian Millham, President and Chief Operating Officer.

As a reminder, our commentary today will include non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP results and guidance can be found in our earnings and press release. Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions which could change. Should any of these risks materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual company results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.

A description of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in our SEC filings, including our most recent report on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and any other SEC filings. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any responsibility to update these forward-looking statements.

And with that, let me hand the call to Marc.

Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Thanks, Mike, and thank you all for being on the call. On our last call in March we told you about how Salesforce had radically accelerated our transformation to profitable growth. We shared with you how we hit the piper space button across the key areas of our transformation restructuring for the short and long-term, reigniting our performance culture by focusing on productivity, operational excellence, and profitability, prioritizing our core innovations that drive customer success, building even stronger relationships with you, our investors.

Our Q1 results show that we continue to make great progress. As I said in March, we are just getting started with this incredible transformation. We continue to scrutinize every dollar of investment, every resource and every spend and we are transforming every corner of our company. Our progress over the last five months well, it's very impressive and I could not be more grateful to our entire team for their leadership. In fact, you may hear me say that several times on this call.

Our transformation drove our Q1 financial results. As I said on our last call, while improving profitability is our highest priority. As a result, we significantly exceeded our margin target for the quarter, delivering a non-GAAP operating margin of 27.6% up 1,000 basis points year-over-year, incredible.

And there is no greater point of evidence to our transformation than this amazing result following the tremendous operating margin in Q4. In Q1, we delivered $8.2 billion in revenue, up 11% year-over-year, and 13% in constant currency. We had some amazing wins in the quarter with Northwell Health, Paramount, Siemens Spotify, NASA and the US Department of Agriculture among others.

We delivered $4.5 billion in operating cash flow up 22% year-over-year. Our remaining performance obligation ended the quarter at $46.7 billion, an increase of 11% year-over-year. And through Q1 we've now returned more than $6 billion in share repurchases. As a result, for the third quarter in a row we ended the quarter with fewer shares year-over-year, another amazing point of evidence on this incredible transformation.

Now turning to our financial guidance. While the economy is not in our control, our margins are, which is why we are raising our margin target for the full fiscal year. For FY24 we are raising our non-GAAP operating margin to 28%, an improvement of 550 basis points year-over-year and we remain confident that we'll hit 30%, non-GAAP operating margins in the first quarter of fiscal year '25. We could not be more excited about our progress. We are maintaining our fiscal year '24 revenue guidance of approximately $34.5 billion to $34.7 billion over 10% projected growth year-over-year.

I couldn't be more proud of how our team has come together, stepped up and delivered these results. I've also been asked numerous times this quarter by our investors and our customers how we are able to make so much progress so fast and deliver these incredible numbers. It's very simple. It's our Ohana culture. It's our super power. And again, I'd like to thank our amazing team for this incredible accomplishment.

Last quarter, I told you about how our AI team is getting ready to launch Einstein GPT, the world's first generative AI for CRM. At Trailhead DX in March in front of 1,000 is a Trailblazers here in San Francisco that's exactly what we did. At its foundation Einstein GPT is open extensible. Customers can connect to multiple large language models including for partners like OpenAI and Anthropic and others. This is a whole new way to work for our customers, users and Trailblazers. Users on Salesforce are seeing new AI generative features across all of their most common workflows, and while many of these will be created by Salesforce developers far more will be created by our incredible Trailblazer ecosystem. For Low-Code of TrailBlazers Einstein GPT will provide a tool set to design generative AI apps built on reasonable prompts.

For Pro-Code Trailblazers Einstein GPT will offer an extensible ecosystem of LLM providers with configurable grounding. And Einstein GPT is the culmination of tremendous research and engineering by our world-class AI team. And I'd like to congratulate them on this amazing result.

And one more amazing result this week Einstein, Salesforce Einstein that we've been talking about for so many years on these calls, will generate an incredible 1 trillion predictions for our customers, an incredible milestone on our AI journey.

We saw more of the incredible work of our AI team at our New York City World Tour, this month when we demonstrated Slack GPT. Slack is a secure treasure trove of company data that generative AI can use to give every company and every employee their own powerful AI assistant helping every employee be more productive and transforming the future of work.

Slack GPT can leverage the power of generative AI to deliver instant conversation summaries, research tools and writing assistance directly in Slack. And you may never need to leave Slack to get a question answered. Slack is the perfect conversational interface, we are working with LLMs which is why so many AI companies are Slack first and why OpenAI, ChatGPT, and Anthropic squad can now use Slack as a native interface.

Slack is also delivering integrated sales and service experiences powered by native GPT to be the best interface for all of our Salesforce customers and there's a lot more magic to come with Slack and generative AI.

In this month, we also announced Tableau GPT at our Tableau conference where we had over 8,000 in-person attendees. Tableau GPT simplifies data analysis for all of our users enabling anyone to inquire about their data using Einstein GPT and obtain AI-driven insights at scale. The intelligence and automation that Tableau GPT provides is tremendously important in this area of hyperscale data that we are all entering.

The coming wave of generative AI will be more evolutionary than any technology innovation that's come before in our lifetime or maybe any lifetime like Netscape Navigator, which opened the door to a greater Internet, a new door has opened with generative AI and it is reshaping our world in ways that we've never imagined. Every CEO realize they're going to have to invest in AI aggressively to remain competitive, and Salesforce is going to be their trusted partner to get them to do just that.

Every CEO, I've spoken with sees AI as a revolution beginning and ending with the customer and every CIO, I've spoken with wants more productivity, more automation, and more intelligence through using AI. A great example already deploying this technology is Gucci. We are working with them to augment their client advisors by building AI chat technology that creates a Gucci tone of service. Well, incredible new voice amplifying brand, storytelling and incremental sales as well.

It's an incredibly exciting vision for generative AI to transform was -- which was customer service into now customer service, marketing, and sales all through augmenting Gucci employee capabilities using this amazing generative AI. But we can only do all of this with trust. Our customers need to understand where their data is going and they must be able to maintain data integrity and access, and privacy controls. Large customers must maintain data compliance as a critical part of their governance while using generative AI and LLMs.

This is not true in the consumer environment, but it is true for our customers, our enterprise customers who demand the highest levels of this capability. For customers who for years have use relational databases as the secure mechanism of their trusted data. They already have that high-level of security to the row and cell level. We all understand that. And that is why we have built our GPT Trust Layer into Einstein GPT. The GPT Trust Layer gives connected LLMs secure real-time access to data, without the need to move all of your data into the LLM itself.

It's an incredible breakthrough for our customers in working with LLMs in a secure and trusted way, and while they're using the LLMs, the data itself is not moving and being stored in the LLM. That is what our customers want. They can be sure that the customer data is where they know it is, where they can be assured that it is for their compliance and for their governance. And I could not be more excited about our AIs CRM and delivering on this future of trusted AI through our new Salesforce GPT Trust Layer.

Finally, I can't talk about AI without talking about the success of our Data Cloud. Data Cloud is the heart of Customer 360 and now our fastest-growing cloud ever. Data Cloud creates a real-time intelligence data lake that brings together and harmonizes all of our customers' data in one place. In Q1, we closed one of our largest health care industry deals ever with Northwell Health, New York's largest private employer. They have 21 hospitals, 900 patient -- 900 outpatient facilities or ambulatory facilities and their own medical school, all in New York. By integrating Data Cloud with Health Cloud, Tableau MuleSoft well our entire Customer 360 vision Northwell is improving patient care by bringing together its vast data resources to create a single source of truth in using AI to govern data, use and maintain regulatory compliance.

This is the future of our customers and our industry. It's AI plus Data Plus CRM, and of course this AI revolution, it's just getting started, which is why we've invested $250 million in our new AI venture fund to fuel startups developing our trusted generative AI vision. We'll be talking more about this at our AI Day event on June 12, in New York City and I hope that you'll join me there.

To wrap up, we are transforming every corner of our company. We are laser-focused on our short-term and long-term restructuring, improving productivity and performance, prioritizing our core innovations and delivering for our shareholders.

As a result, productivity is up, profitability is up, revenues up, cash flow is up and we dramatically increased our margin guidance. And just like the cloud, mobile and social well AI this revolution is a new innovation cycle. It's going to be a new spending cycle as well, which is going to spark a massive new tech buying cycle, and we've led the industry through each of these cycles, and I couldn't be more excited for our future as we continue on a path to our long-term goal to make Salesforce the largest most profitable enterprise software company in the world and the number one safest and most trusted AI CRM.

With that, Brian, I'll turn it over to you.

Brian Millham{BIO 22034844 <GO>}
Thanks, Marc. As Marc said, we are continuing our transformation across every part of our company. Our focus on performance, culture, and operational excellence contributed to our strong first quarter results. Since our last call, we've removed layers to get closer to our customers and took complexity out of our business to help us accelerate through the rest of the year. We clearly define our return and remote office guidelines for our employees and it's been great to get together, even more in our offices and with our customers around the globe. I had the chance to visit many of our offices this quarter and the energy is incredible.

As you heard from Marc our transformation plan continues to deliver top and bottom-line growth as we help our customers increase productivity, drive efficiency and become AI-first companies. But we are still operating in an uncertain macro-environment. Customers continue to scrutinize every deal and we see elongated deal cycles and deal compression, particularly in our more transactional revenue streams like SMB, create-and-close and self-serve. Also in Q1, our professional service business starting to see less demand for multiyear transformations, and in some cases delayed projects as customers focused on quick wins and fast time to value. But for this reason, we saw strong performance from some of our fast time to value efficiency focus products with sales performance management, sales productivity and digital service, all growing annual recurring revenue above 40% in the quarter. As customers look to reduce complexity and achieve faster time to value, they're expanding their adoption of Salesforce clouds, a key growth strategy for us.

The world's most recognized companies are relying on Salesforce. More than 90% of the Fortune 100 use Salesforce and they average more than five of our clouds. This is why we are so excited about our AI plus Data Plus CRM strategy. As Marc explained, we are building Einstein GPT and Data Cloud into every cloud in our Customer 360, and we are perfectly positioned to help our customers harness the phenomenal power of AI. Our core offerings remain resilient. In Q1, nine of our top 10 deals included sales, service and platform.

Industry clouds continue to be a tailwind to our growth and we saw momentum with great customers like Northwell, USDA Rural Development, and NASA who we showcased at World Tour in DC in April.

Once again, eight of our industry clouds grew ARR above 50%. I met with hundreds of customers in the quarter when we hosted 700 meetings in our innovation centers with our top customers and prospects. Generative AI is top of mind for all of them. As they look to benefit from the intelligence, automation, and cost savings as Salesforce is uniquely positioned to deliver. We are seeing tremendous appetite for our new generative AI products starting with Einstein GPT, Slack GPT and Data Cloud. Our generative AI products will be a catalyst for our future growth.

As Marc mentioned Data Cloud continues to be one of our fastest-growing products and we had great wins in the quarter with companies like Major League Soccer, and Giorgio Armani. Armani uses Data Cloud to deliver hyper-personalized online and in-store experiences real-time engagement and curated shopping recommendations. We can see how Data Cloud and Einstein GPT are going to create experiences that weren't possible before and really drive growth. In an environment where customers are optimizing their current tech stacks integration and automation continue to be efficiency drivers. MuleSoft again delivered strong results with wins at Siemens, Synovus, and Vodafone.

For the first time, Salesforce was ranked number one in integration by market share in the latest IDC Software Tracker, a great testament to our MuleSoft team. Tableau is unleashing the power of our Data Cloud unlocking customer data and delivering actionable real-time insights. In the quarter, we had great wins at customers like UnionBank of the Philippines, Discovery Financial Service, Moderna, ADT Solar, and Alaska Air. We've made great investments to reaccelerate Tableau, including new leadership along with product innovations like Tableau GPT and Revenue Intelligence. Now, one of our fastest-growing add-ons.

I'm really encouraged by the Slack team who has created an ambitious product roadmap with generative AI at the center. In Q1 we saw amazing momentum with customers like the California Office of System Integration, Paramount Global, Revel, and OpenAI, and rolled out in AI-ready platform Slack Canvas and app integrations with ChatGPT and Anthropic Cloud. Overall. I could not be more thrilled with our offerings and the market position, especially as it relates to delivering on the promise of AI. We are looking forward to continuing to be energy and momentum at our AI Day in just a couple of weeks. I'm very proud of the teams and of our partners. Their focus on customer success continues to be outstanding.

As Marc said, our productivity is up, profitability is up, revenue is up, cash flow is up. We are increasing our margin guidance and Salesforce is leading the way as the number one AI CRM.

Now over to you, Amy.

Amy Weaver{BIO 17089499 <GO>}
Thank you, Brian. As Marc said, a key part of our transformation to profitable growth is short and long-term restructuring of the company. We've now largely completed the restructuring announced in January and we are completing our comprehensive operating and go-to-market review. As we shift to the implementation phase, we are executing against three key pillars, optimization of resources and organization structure, product investment prioritization and operational rigor. We continue to view sales and marketing and G&A as the primary drivers of leverage, while R&D remains an important investment area.

Our profitable growth framework, disciplined capital allocation strategy, and opportunity to drive shareholder value are represented in our actions, and in our results. Now turning to our results for Q1 fiscal year '24 beginning with top line commentary. For the first quarter revenue was $8.2 billion, up 11% year-over-year, or 13% in constant currency. With the beat primarily driven by strong momentum in MuleSoft and more resilient core performance. Geographically, we saw strong new business growth in parts of EMEA and LATAM, specifically Switzerland, Italy and Brazil, while we experienced continued pressure in the United States.

In Q1, the Americas revenue grew 10%, EMEA grew 12% or 17% in constant currency, and APAC grew 16% or 24% in constant currency. From an industry perspective, manufacturing, automotive, and energy, all performed well, while high-tech and financial services remained under pressure. Q1 revenue attrition ended the quarter at approximately 8%. As expected, we saw a modest increase in Q1, partially attributed to the inclusion of Tableau in the metric. We also noted some incremental weakness in our marketing and commerce attrition.

As Marc said, non-GAAP operating margin finished strong in Q1 at 27.6% driven by our disciplined investment strategy and accelerating our restructuring efforts. Q1 operating cash flow was $4.5 billion, up 22% year-over-year. This includes the 910 basis points headwind from restructuring. Q1 free cash flow was $4.2 billion, up 21% year-over-year. Turning to Remaining Performance Obligation, or RPO, which represents all future revenue under contract. This ended Q1 at $46.7 billion, up 11% year-over-year. Current Remaining Performance Obligation or CRPO ended at $24.1 billion, up 12% year-over-year in both nominal and constant currency ahead of expectations, driven by strong core performance, partially offset by continued create-and-close softness.

And finally, we continue to deliver on our capital return commitment. In Q1, we returned $2.1 billion in the form of share repurchases, bringing the total returned to more than $6 billion since the program was initiated last August, representing more than 38 million shares.

Before moving to guidance, I wanted to briefly touch on the current macro-environment that Brian discussed. The more measured buying behavior persisted in Q1. And as Brian noted, in Q1, we started to see weakness in our professional services business. We expect this factor to persist, which is incorporated in our guidance. Let's start with fiscal year '24. On revenue, we are holding our guidance of $34.5 billion to $34.7 billion, representing over 10% growth year-over-year in both nominal and constant currency. This strengthened our Q1 performance is offset by the pressure on our professional services business previously discussed.

For fiscal year '24, we are raising non-GAAP operating margin guidance to 28%, representing a 550 basis points improvement year-over-year. This guidance increase is driven by the acceleration of our restructuring efforts and also includes reinvestment in targeted areas, namely in R&D. I'm proud of our progress and remain confident in our trajectory as we progress towards our 30% non-GAAP operating margin target in Q1 '25.

We also remain focused on stock-based compensation and continue to expect it to improve this year to below 9% as a percent of revenue. Before moving to EPS, on restructuring we now expect the charges in FY24 to come in towards the higher end of the range previously provided on our last earnings release. As a result of these updates, we now expect fiscal year '24 GAAP EPS of $2.67 to $2.69, including estimated charges for the restructuring of $1.11. Non-GAAP EPS is now expected to be $7.41 to $7.43. And we are raising our fiscal year '24, operating cash flow growth to be approximately 16% to 17%, which now includes a 14 point to 16 point headwind from restructuring.

As a reminder, we will see an increase in our cash taxes in fiscal '24 as we draw down our remaining net operating losses. CapEx for the fiscal year is expected to be slightly below 2.5% of revenue. This results in free cash flow growth of approximately 17% to 18% for the fiscal year.

Now the guidance for Q2. On revenue, we expect $8.51 billion to $8.53 billion, growth of approximately 10% both nominal and constant currency. CRPO growth for Q2 is expected to be approximately 10% year-over-year in nominal and constant currency. Our guidance incorporates the momentum of our execution in Q1, offset by the persistent measured buying behavior and a decline in professional services fixed fees contribution. The professional services impact represents approximately a 1 point headwind to growth.

For Q2, we expect GAAP EPS of $0.79 to $0.80, and non-GAAP EPS of $1.89 to $1.90. And as we focus on shareholder return and disciplined capital allocation, we continue to expect to fully offset our stock-based compensation dilution through our share repurchases in fiscal year '24.

In closing, we continue to transform every corner of the company. We are hyper-focused on delivering the next wave of innovation led by Data Cloud and Einstein GPT, and Salesforce is well-positioned to remain the market leader in this new AI-first world. We are committed to delivering long-term shareholder value. And I personally want to thank our shareholders for their continued support.

Now Mike, let's open up the call for questions.

Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Amy. Operator, we'll move to questions now. I ask that everyone only ask one question in respect for others on the call. In addition, I'd like to introduce, Srini Tallapragada, our Head of Engineering who will be joining us for Q&A today. With that, Emma, let's move to the questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question today comes from the line of Kirk Materne with Evercore. Your line is open.

Q - Kirk Materne{BIO 5771115 <GO>}
Yes, thanks very much, and congrats on the good start to the year. Marc, you've been through a number of cycles from a technology perspective. I was just kind of curious, where you think we are in terms of people investigating AI versus when the spending cycle around it kick-in? Just give us an idea sort of your thoughts on that and it really just the opportunity for you all to monetize AI within your product base. Thanks.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well, I think this is the absolute question of the day which is we are about to enter an unbelievable super-cycle for tech and everyone can see that. This is an incredible opportunity for not only Salesforce, but our entire industry. I mean perhaps only a year ago or less than a year ago no one on this call even knew what GPT was. Today, ChatGPT is the fastest-growing consumer product of all time and has transformed many, many lives. It's definitely not just the technology of this lifetime, but maybe any lifetime.

It's an incredible technology. And every company is going to have to transform, because every company is going to have to become more productive, more automated, more intelligent through this technology to be competitive with other companies. And just yesterday, I've been at a room here at the top of Salesforce Tower on the 60th floor and with the CEO of very large bank here. And like every other sales call, I've made in the last quarter there's only one thing that customers want to talk about and that's artificial intelligence, and specifically generative AI.

Of course, we have been a leader in this area with Einstein more than a trillion transactions delivered this week. So these are primarily predictive transactions built on machine intelligence, machine learning and deep learning. But in 2018, deep learning evolved and became much more sophisticated and became generative. As these neural network expanded their capabilities and also the hardware went to another level as well. So now we have this incredible new capability, it's a new platform for growth. And I couldn't be more excited, but yesterday there were many questions from my friend who, I'm not going to give you his name because he is one of -- the CEO of one of the largest and most important banks in the world.

And I'll just say that, of course, his primary focus is on productivity. He knows that he wants to make his bankers a lot more successful. He wants every banker to be able to rewrite a mortgage, but not every banker can because writing the mortgage takes a lot of technical expertise. But as we showed him in the medium through a combination of Tableau which we demonstrated and Slack which we demonstrated, and Salesforce's Financial Services Cloud which he has 10s of thousands of users on, that banker understood that this would be incredible, but I also emphasized him that LLMs or Large Language Models, they have a voracious appetite for data. They want every piece of data that they can consume.

But through his regulatory standards, he cannot deliver all that data into the LLM because it becomes amalgamated. Today, he runs on Salesforce and his data is secure down to the row and cell level. He knows that readers don't block writers that there's all types of security provisions in regarding who can see what data about what account or what customer. And when you put it into a LLM those permissions are not understood. So that is a very powerful moment to realize that the way that LLMs operate is (inaudible) where they're kind of consuming all this data and then giving us that information back out well that Salesforce is opportunity. That's why we built this GPT Trust Layer.

And through the GPT Trust Layer and rebuilding all of our apps, including Slack and Tableau, but as we demonstrated to him yesterday, a new sales cloud, a new service cloud, a new marketing cloud, and what will show on June 12 in New York City, a complete reconceptualization of our product line. What that means for this customer and for every customer is that they have an opportunity to transform their business, and for Salesforce that also means an opportunity to transform ourselves and for our industry, a new super-cycle where every company will have to transform to be AI-first.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Q - Elizabeth Porter{BIO 18911007 <GO>}
Great. This is Elizabeth Porter on for Keith Weiss. Thanks for the question. I wanted to ask on the potential disruption from rebuilding the sales enablement process. Are we pass the point of seeing disruption or could that be a future risk? And if so, how is it included in guidance? The CRPO guidance for 10% looks like a bit of a slowdown, despite the easier comp and Amy you called out pro services, a 1 point headwind. So just any other factors we should keep in mind that may create a challenge in the next couple of months? Thank you.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well, I'll tell you that, I think that as you know, in Q1, we went through tremendous disruption with human resources in our company and it was very disruptive to all of our Ohana. And I'm so grateful to them for how they supported the whole company, all the customers and themselves during what was probably one of the most disruptive quarters that I've seen, and yet we delivered these incredible numbers and this incredible technology vision going forward.

In terms of enablement of the sales organization, its ability to kind of move forward, that is not I would say a material part of what happened in the quarter or what's gonna happen for the year. Our sales organization remains with a very high level of productivity, but let me turn it over to Brian speak directly to the strategy on delivery in the year.

A - Brian Millham{BIO 22034844 <GO>}
Yeah, Marc, thank you. I appreciate it, and Elizabeth thank you for the question. I think you're referencing some comments we made on previous calls about enablement being an important strategy for us. As we saw during the pandemic not as many of our AEs and SEs and leaders whereas enabled as we would like. We've made those changes and we really invested in the time to make sure our AEs understand our product portfolio, the entire Customer 360 and we are on sort of the next generation of enablement. As Marc just talked about this new AI wave is going to create a huge opportunity for us and we need to make sure that we are investing in the enablement to bring our teams along.

It's been a very short window, around this innovation and we've got some work to do on this, but we are very, very excited with our path for our position in the market, all that we are doing with our customers, the demand we are feeling from our customers Marc mentioned it and I had the same experience. Every CEO in the world is talking to us about generative AI right now and we are investing heavily to make sure our account executives, our sales teams, in fact, the entire company is able to articulate our value proposition to our customers. So, Amy, I don't know if you have any further comments there.

A - Amy Weaver{BIO 17089499 <GO>}
Sure. Elizabeth, you mentioned CRPO so and professional services. So let me jump in on that. For our guide for this next quarter we are seeing some pressures from the macro situation. And then also specifically from professional services, and there is a bit of a nuance with ProServ, I want to make sure people understand. So if you back up, our customers can contrast for professional services in two ways, either on a (inaudible) material basis, which is typically used for smaller projects, or on a fixed-fee kind of milestone basis.

For purposes of CRPO, we only include projected revenue from fixed-fee deals. One of the things that we are seeing right now is not only a professional services as a whole same pressure, but more customers are choosing to contract on a time and materials basis which is not included in our CRPO. So, as a result, we are seeing double pressure there, and I'm expecting a full 1-point headwind to CRPO for the quarter from professional services.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Elizabeth. Emma let's move to the next question, please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Sills with Bank of America. Your line is open.

Q - Brad Sills{BIO 15854296 <GO>}
Wonderful. Thanks. I wanted to ask a question to Brian, I think here on the efforts here to improve productivity. You mentioned removing some layers here. My question is, we think, of all these actions that you're taking as drivers of margin expansion. But are you starting to see some early traction here on the sales productivity fronts such that perhaps that's driving some upside here across the business, perhaps larger deals now that you're seeing coming out of out of the field and pipeline and some of the deal closure? Thank you so much.

A - Brian Millham{BIO 22034844 <GO>}
Thanks, Brian for the question. I really appreciate it. As you know, we are operating in a constrained environment right now. And so we are really focused on this productivity measure and metric for our organization right now investing heavily, as I mentioned earlier in enablement part of our organization. Also looking at other ways to drive productivity. And one of the things that we are talking quite a bit about right now is pricing and packaging, bringing together logical products that we can be selling in a single motion versus our go-to-market, which is largely aligned by product. How do we focus on a larger average deal size for every transaction and so big investments on that front. Really a strong focus on productivity as it relates to moving people up-market as well. We are thinking about self-serve in the bottom end of our market. How do we drive a self-serve motion and automated motion at the low-end of our market to bring our account executives up-market to drive higher productivity in the sales organization.

So clearly a big motion for us right now. We feel very good about our big deal motion. Actually in Q4, we saw some -- sorry Q1 we saw some very good big deal execution from the team that is not really an area that has held us back. We feel very good about our ability to transform companies and transact these large businesses. It really is the Velocity business that has held us back a bit on our create and close some of the SMB transactions.

So we have a clear focus in this area to drive the productivity with our plans going into Q2 and beyond into Q4.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Brad. Emma next question, please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with Jefferies. Your line is open.

Q - Brent Thill{BIO 1556691 <GO>}
Amy regarding Americas, that was a pretty large decel one of your slowest growth quarters, I think ever in Americas. The rest of world did decel, but maybe not quite as the magnitude of the Americas. Can you just speak to what happened there in that region?

A - Amy Weaver{BIO 17089499 <GO>}
Sure. So, thanks, Brent for the question. The Americas did see a deceleration a 10% year-on year revenue growth compared to 17% in EMEA and about 24% in nominal in APAC. We are continuing to see most of the pressure in North America. There were some real pockets of acceleration in EMEA and in LatAm, particularly in Switzerland, I think Brazil, Italy. So we are seeing some good things. And North America has taken the brunt of the deceleration. Brian, do you want to come in and see if you can address that in more detail?

A - Brian Millham{BIO 22034844 <GO>}
Sure. I think when we think about our business from an industry perspective we have a very nice footprint of our great technology companies and financial services company, both of which were a bit slower than we would have liked in the Americas in Q1. And so as we think about the all-in price for Americas business those industries felt a little bit more of the economic headwinds in the quarter in Q1 and so I think a bit of a slowdown from that perspective is a result you're seeing in the Americas business.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Brent. Emma the next question, please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.

Q - Mark Murphy{BIO 18840231 <GO>}
Thank you very much, and I'll add my congrats. So Marc, it feels like the tech and software industry has had a recession without the broader economy being in a recession quite yet and that's very unusual. Do you think with all the purging and optimizing of IT budgets, which is already taking place plus, Salesforce's headcount optimization already being underway, that perhaps the next recession might actually be more manageable or easier to navigate than what you had seen in some of the prior cycles?

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well, I think that this is a great question and I tried to address it on the last call. I just really think you have to look at 2021 was just this massive super-cycle called the pandemic. I don't know if you remember, but we had a pandemic, a couple years ago and during that we saw tech buying like we never saw. It was incredible. And everybody surged on tech buying. So you're really looking at comparisons against that huge mega-cycle, and that is what I think is extremely important to understand the relative comparisons.

And that is where my head is at, which is I'm constantly comparing against what happened in 2021, but also looking at 2020 and 2019. That's a little bit different than '08, and that's a little bit different than '01. We didn't exactly have this huge mega cycles that kind of we were exiting and that's also what gives me tremendous confidence going forward. In that what we are really seeing is that customers are absorbing the huge amount of technology that they bought and that is about to come, I believe to a close. I can't give you the exact date and it's going to be accelerated by this AI super cycle.

Q - Mark Murphy{BIO 18840231 <GO>}
Thank you.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Mark. Emma the next question, please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Bracelin with Piper Sandler. Your line is open.

Q - Brent Bracelin{BIO 2447337 <GO>}
Good afternoon. I wanted to circle back to the generative AI discussion if we could. I totally understand how large enterprises are turning to Microsoft given the productivity tools and suite that they have. But as you start to engage with customers what's resonating relative to the Salesforce AI journey? Is that the data layer and Customer 360 message that's resonating? Is that the app layer around sales automation functionality that you're going to offer just double-click on what customers are coming to Salesforce and engaging with you around some of the new things that we'll hear about it sounds like in June?

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well, I think that when you look at our artificial intelligence strategy which we talking to the largest most important companies and governments in the world, it has to be architected around security, it has to be architected around compliance around trust, it has to be architected around governance, and this is very important. And of course, we are also architected around being open, that is we are working with many AI companies to provide the best solutions for our company. Of course, we have a tremendous relationship with OpenAI. We also just invested in (inaudible). Many of these companies. But, I think ultimately this is going to be a solution that enterprise customers are going to come in and make sure that their data is protected and it's also protected down at the user level.

And Srini, do you want to come in and talk about exactly what we are doing to make sure that we are delivering the best possible solutions for our customers for AI?

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
Yes, Marc. So, I think I've met above 70 customers in the last quarter, and like Marc was saying only conversation everybody is interested is on AI, and while everybody understands the use cases, they really worried about trust. And what they're looking for us is guidance on how to solve that. For example, so we are lot of things as the basic security level, like we are really doing tenant level isolation coupled with zero retention architecture at the LLM level. So that LLM doesn't remember any of the data.

Along with that for them to use these use cases they want to have -- they have lot of these compliances like GDPR, ISO SOC, FedRAMP they want to ensure that those compliances are still valid and we are going to solve it for that. In addition, the big worry, everybody has is you know people have heard about hallucinations, toxicity, biased, this is what we call model trust. We have a lot of innovation around how to ground the data on 360 data, which is a huge advantage we have and we are able to do lot of things at that level.

And then the thing which I think, Marc hinted at, which is LLM's are not like a database. These intra-enterprise trust. Even once you have an LLM, you can't open the data to everybody in the company. So you need ability to do this, who can access this data, how is it doing both before query and after the query, we have to build that. And then we have to be not only open, but also optimized. We are running an open -- the way we'll run is we will run like a model tournament, because one of the things everybody has to watch out is, great, but what about the cost-to-serve. Not all models are equal. So we are going to run this and pick very -- we are going to pick a very cost optimized curve so the value is very high and our Salesforce AI research has lot of Salesforce state-of-the art models and industry cases which we are optimizing to run at very low cost and high value.

Add to that we got the Trailblazer platform, which allows Low-Code, High-Code, and many other things and we are going to optimize for the jobs to be done for each industry and job. That's really what they're looking for, because they have been using our AI platform like Marc mentioned we already do a trillion transactions per day and by the way, the Data Cloud just in a month we are importing more than 7 trillion records into the data layer, so which is a very powerful asset we have.

So coupled with all of this is what they're looking for guidance and how we think we can deliver significant value to our customers.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Srini, I wanted to ask you a question in January you published a paper in Nature from your research team which was, I'll call it, large language models generating functional protein sequences across a diverse families and you really showed something amazing, which was the deep learning language models have shown this incredible promise that you just articulated in various biotechnological applications including protein design, engineering and you also described very well, one of our models that we've created internally ProGen, which was a language model that can generate protein sequences with predictable function across large protein families. I was very impressed with that, and the entire research team deserves a huge amount of congratulations.

So when you look at that, especially generally and dramatically and semantically correct natural language sentences for diverse topics or how you're going to use that inside our platform against other models that you're seeing like LAMA[ph], OpenAI model, Anthropic and others. When will Salesforce use our own models like CodeGen, ProGen, TCode or BLIP model, when will we use an outside commercial model, like an OpenAI or an Anthropic? And when we will go to an open-sourced model like we've seen emerge in so many of those including like LAMA?

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
Yeah, I think you hinted something very important. I think as you know, Marc, we have our AI research team is one of the best-in-class model, state-of-the-art model from different areas. The way we are thinking of like anything else where the world is going to go, which we strongly believe is going to be multiple models and depending on the use case, you will pick the right models, which will provide you the value at the lowest cost. Whereas we have to run with highly regulated industries where the data cannot leave the trust boundary or where we have significant advantage where we can train on industry-specific data or Salesforce specific -- 360 specific data, like for example, our FX model are helping our customers implement or flow, we will use our internal model, where we need more generated image models or something where it needs public image databases, we may use (inaudible) or Anthropic or an OpenAI.

It depends on the use case and which is why in a given request secure trusted gateway will decide smartly, which is the best use case, which is the model and we always keep running the tournament, which is what I mean. So today one particular model may be good, tomorrow something else will come and we'll behind the scenes flip it, but our customers don't need to know that.

We will handle all of it. We will handle the model trust. We will handle all the compliances and all behind the scenes. And this is always what we promised to our customers. We'll always future-proofed, that's the Salesforce promise to our customers so that they can focus on the business cases.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
So just one last follow-up question. You've described very well this GPT Trust Layer, which. I think is going to be a significant amount of value-added, that we are going to provide to our customers, it's going to be quite amazing. And then you developed these specific grounding techniques, which are going to allow us to keep our data safe and not be consumed by these voracious large language models which are so hungry for all of our customers' data. What is going to be the key to actually delivering this now across regulated industries?

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
I think the key is innovations we are doing which people will see starting next month is around what we call from generation and grounding. These are techniques which will have to do, but it will work, only because we have all of this is based on underlying data. We have the data cloud, where we have all the 360 data, which is there. So we are able to ground these models and do it, but there are lot of other techniques which are very technical which we put it on our blogs. But that's the innovation that we are doing and you have to remember that Salesforce also is a metadata model, So we unless have the semantic understanding of what our customers are trying to do, they're going to leverage the metadata platform and do this grounding automatically for our customers, of course, while keeping the trust that's the baseline.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Absolutely. Thank you so much, Srini.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Emma next question, please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays. Your line is open.

Q - Raimo Lenschow{BIO 4664646 <GO>}
Thank you. Question for Amy or Brian, maybe more. The improvement in profitability or to raise guidance for profitability and cash, is that all timing? And you talked a little bit about that. Is it just timing or are there other factors we should consider here? Thank you.

A - Amy Weaver{BIO 17089499 <GO>}
So, Raimo, why don't I start then I can turn it over to Brian for a little bit more color. So in terms of the great Q1 that we just really pleased to see is coming in at 27.6% and also really pleased about the 28%, the raise to 28% for the full year. What really drove the 27.6 was two things it was the actions that we took that we announced in January with the restructuring. Executing on that as well as having a very disciplined reinvestment strategy, and that led to that, and that's also where we are going to see this going for the rest of the year and driving the expansion to 28% and then also putting us on track for the 30% margin in Q1 of next year.

I looked at overall, transformation, I would really divided into two stages. Benefits that we are getting from that initial transformation and again, that's what you're seeing in Q1 in this year. And then the second stage which is really as we've been going through this comprehensive operating and go-to-market review. That review is going to enable the second phase of our transformation and that's something that's going to be ongoing and long-term over the next few years. You'll see benefits to our margin in elder years beyond FY24. Brian, anything you would add?

A - Brian Millham{BIO 22034844 <GO>}
Well, Raimo thanks for the question. When we think about longer term structures, we obviously took the action in Q1, but longer term, we're looking at things like how do we leverage top plan redesign to drive better efficiencies in our organization going forward. How do we continue to look at self-serve at the low end of the market to drive better efficiencies in our organization. So resellers as a potential investment that will make in emerging markets is long-term leverage on efficiency gains. So lots of things that we are doing, that will be in sort of the phase 2 oriented around process improvement and systems improvement. And again, as I mentioned top plan design that will drive better efficiencies in the organization.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Raimo. Emma, let's go to the next question, please.

Operator
Your next question is from Karl Keirstead with UBS. Your line is open.

Q - Karl Keirstead{BIO 1542979 <GO>}
Okay, great. I'll direct this to Amy as well. Amy congrats on that margin improvement. I've got a two-parter both related to margins. First, what is the timing of the receipt of that being operational review that might extensively kick off the second phase of cost-cutting? And then secondly you and Brian talked about, this reinvestment in R&D and investing heavily, around AI. I'm wondering if those planned investments are greater than you anticipated when you initially set the guidance three months ago such that you need to run a little bit harder on OpEx management to offset it and keep delivering on your stated margin targets? Thanks so much.

A - Amy Weaver{BIO 17089499 <GO>}
Great. Thanks, Karl. So first on the timing. Like I mentioned, we've been doing this end-to-end comprehensive operating and go-to-market ratio. The entire company has been involved in that. There's really no stoned unturned. We are getting close to the end of that process and then we will be moving into the implementation. You'll be hearing more about that in future quarters.

Turning to reinvestment. We are keeping a very close eye on reinvestments. Very excited particularly about artificial intelligence so much of what Srini has been talking to about. I don't view this as a greater investment from what we were looking at earlier. We are really going along with our current plans. We are looking at operating expenses management and we are looking at it seriously every day, but that's not something that has changed.

A - Mike Spencer{BIO 20838577 <GO>}
Thanks, Karl. Operator -- Emma we'll move to our last question now, please.

Operator
Excellent. Our last question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Q - Kash Rangan{BIO 22837283 <GO>}
All right. Thank you very much, team. Congratulations on putting up a terrific operational results. Net debt cash flow, good margins, et cetera. Marc, you talked about a super-cycle of buying in technology in the years ahead. Can you just still for us, if you don't mind what is new about generative AI as far as Salesforce's opportunity for concern netting out against what Einstein has been able to accomplish for you -- for the company? And how does it show up in the product in terms of productivity? What are the scenarios by which customers can experience this amazing productivity? And how can you charge more for delivering that kind of value? Thank you so much.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well, thanks Kash for giving me the opportunity to talk about our AI vision, I'm mostly going to ask Srini again to fill in some of the details, but, I think it started to occur to me, I think I'll let folks know I have my neighbors Sam Altman, as the CEO of OpenAI and I went over to his house for a dinner and it was a great conversation as it always is with him. And he had -- he said just hold on one second, Marc, I want to get my laptop and he brought his laptop out and give me some demonstrations of advanced technologies that are not appropriate for the call. But, I did notice that there was only one application, but he was using on his laptop and that was Slack.

And the powerful part about that was, I realized that everything from day one, at OpenAI had been in Slack and as we kind of brainstormed and talked about, of course, he was paid Slack user fee, on and on and he is a great Slack customer. We've done a video about them it's on Youtube, but I realize that take it in LLM and embedding it inside Slack, well maybe Slack will wake up. I mean there is so much data in Slack, I wonder if it could tell him. But what are the opportunities in OpenAI, what are the conflicts, what are the conversations, what should be his prioritization, what is the big products that got repressed that he never knew about, and I realized in my own version of Slack at Salesforce, I have over 95 million Slack messages and these are all open messages.

I'm not talking about close messaging or direct messaging or secure messaging between employers. I'm talking about the open framework that's going on inside Salesforce and so many of our customers, and then I realized wow, I think Slack would wake up and it could become a tremendous asset with an LLM consuming all that data and driving it. And then, of course, the idea is, as that as the new version of Slack, not only do you have the free version of Slack, not only do you have the per-user version of Slack, but then you have the additional LLM version of Slack.

And for each one of our products in every single one of our categories, there is that opportunity to up-sell and cross-sell into the next version of generative AI, not just with Slack, but you can also imagine, for example, even with Salesforce, the ability is we are going to see in June that many of our Trailblazers are amazing Low Code, No Code Trailblazers, but soon they will have the ability to tap into our LLMs, like ProGen and CoGen that have the ability to code for them automatically. They aren't coders. They didn't graduate computer science degrees and if they need to right sophisticate apex code or other code, it can be a challenge for them, but because, you know what is there only eight or 10 million coders, in the whole world but now with LLMs everybody can start to code. That's an amazing productivity and augmentation of everybody's skillset and that's a great way to look at what can happen for example, with our core products but even with Tableau, which has tremendous programmatic engine as well or even MuleSoft, which is a highly programmatic -- highly programmatic product that then coupled with an LLM can have it the ability to go forward.

But of course, those LLMs are highly trained models for the specific types of code and then that is something that we would add-on either through partnership or through our own LLMs as Srini described, it's another layer of value that we can provide to our customers.

In all cases, customers are going to be more productive, they're going to be more automated and they're going to be more intelligent. And as we look at some of the examples that we've given like at the New York World Tour you saw our Marketing Cloud do something very cool that it couldn't do even just six months ago. It segmented the database on its own. It wrote an email on its own. Of course, it required editing. It also built the landing page on its own, that was amazing as we saw at the Tableau Conference we saw Tableau being able to create its own viz[ph] or visualizations that was incredible and what we saw at our Trailhead DX we saw Einstein GPT, which started to do these amazing next generation things.

And, I think in each of these areas, we can offer more value, but we must do it in the auspices of trust, data integrity and governance and that is what we have been working on now for a considerable amount of time, of course, we've led in all. We have always wanted to be the number one AI CRM and we are if you look at Einstein's transaction level, I think that's enough evidence right there, but I think this idea of generative AI, this starts to reconceptualize every product, and we will start to build and develop not only extensions to all of our current products but entirely new products as well and we have a lot of exciting ideas of things we can do to help our customers connect with their customers in a new way using generative AI.

Srini, if you want to come in and talk about that?

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
Thanks, Marc. So, I think the way I see it is this AI technologies are on a continuum that is predictive and then generative and the real long-term goal is autonomous. The initial version of the generative AI will be more in terms of assistance and like Marc was saying, we are seeing like the most common use case everybody understands implicitly is self-service bots or in the call centers or agent assistants, which I think really helps productivity. But the other use cases which we are going to see and in fact, I have rolled out our own code LLMs in our engineering or we are already seeing minimum 20% productivity and in those cases--

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
Well that's a very key point, isn't, that you are seeing a 30% productivity increase in your own engineering using our own LLMs.

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
20%, we are seeing minimum, in some cases until 30%. Now, a lot of our customers are asking the same. You are going to roll Einstein GPT for our developers in the ecosystem, which will not only help not only the local developers to bridge the gap where there is a talent gap, but also reduce the cost of implementations for a lot of people. So there's a lot of value. This assistant model is where we'll see lot of uptick, and then I think the fully autonomous cases, for example in our own internal use cases with our models, we are able to detect 60% of instances and auto remediate. That requires a little bit more fine tuning and we'll have to work with specific customers to get to that level of model performance.

So I see this is just the start of the trust. The assistant model is the initial thing need to build trust and a human in the loop and validate it and then as the model is getting better and better we'll keep taking use cases where we can fully automate it.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
And address this one issue, that a lot of customers come in, like they did yesterday and they tell us they think they're just going to take all of their data, all their customer data, all of their information, and put it into at LLM and create a corporate knowledge base, and it's going to be one amalgamated database. Why is that a false prophecy?

A - Srinivas Tallapragada{BIO 18518319 <GO>}
Because you know even today any example you've seen, even though we have hundreds of Slack channels, a lot of specific Slack channels which only you want access to, you don't want that. LLM doesn't know, there is no concept of it combines all this information. So unless you put the layer both before, who can access the data and then when it generates response what it can do you don't want one wealth manager to centrally generate a report, an account report where you are mixing customers balances.

So there are lot of trust issues you have to solve. So LLMs are good for lot of very creative generating use cases. Initially, where it's public data where everybody can use it. Those are use cases. I think there will n[ph] of low-hanging fruit in the initial phases of the assistant model which will solve the really complex automated cases, the row level, record level, sharing, we have lot of techniques, which we are developing, which we will do. It's also a search area too. That one, I think we should be tempered with expectations, but this n[ph] of like I said the developer example, I gave, productivity example I gave there's n[ph] of productivity which we'll get.

A - Marc Benioff{BIO 1983575 <GO>}
We are really excited to show all of this technology at our AI Day on June 12 in New York City and then also when we get to Dreamforce GPT we are going to have an incredible demonstration of this technology.

So with that, we want to thank everyone for joining us today, and we look forward to seeing everyone over the coming weeks. Have a great one.

Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

